2. I have never been more miserable in my entire life.

3. Loved it in the Bay!

4. Horrible school with an even worse administration. I fully regret attending this joke of an institution. Marvella Luey is by far the most unhelpful person in this entire university.

5. UNIVERSITY OF THE BEST CITY EVER

6. The campus is in a really nice area of the city. I'd say about half way between Ocean Beach and Downtown. Because of that the social scene on campus isn't that big as most people go off campus to have fun. But the grounds are real nice and on the rare sunny day it's great to just go out and sit on the lawn. Food gets old after a while though.

7. Beautiful campus & with a stellar location but is a small campus w a dismal student center with little social interaction. Food is ok, but falls short when compared to SFSU's selection.  Despite the diversity, it's very cliquey.  Parking is poor & is even worse when the elders visit Fromm. But in the end, its what you make of your experience there

8. best school in us

9. Overall, a decent and very expensive school in the best (but also very expensive) location any school could possibly offer.  Location is probably the number one reason me or anyone at this campus chose this school. Small, private school, classes are definitely small and more focused, and a very diverse student population.

10. The University is more quant than you'd expect from SF but gives you the homie vibes in an intense city.

11. Awesome school in one of the greatest cities in the world. There are a ton of opportunities and for the most part great and inspiring professors. The campus is beautiful and the city location makes it so there is never a boring day. The school is prestigious, so you may have to work more than a normal college, but it is well worth it.

12. It's everything you'd expect from a Jesuit university in the center of San Francisco: Social justice is the main priority, the environment is respectful of all, the student body is 67% minority students, and the coursework is demanding yet extraordinarily fufilling. I never want to leave.

13. The school is very pretty. They have a very good alumni network. However, some of the older buildings need a remodel and the food in the cafe is overpriced and disgusting.

14. Not bad, but expensive.

15. The city is the best part about the school.  Greek life is awesome here! Definitely helps make more connections!

16. Upon transferring, it is one of the most friendly, supportive environments that I have ever encountered. Teachers care about you here, and it makes a difference. Expensive yes, but you get what you pay for.

17. This is one of those places to be if you love the SF feel. It's in a decent area and walking distance of some great shopping areas and food, but the campus is pretty small and it's more pricey than necessary. Community-wise,there are lots of different clubs and events going on and plus, it's not too hard to start your own either. B+ overall

18. Love it!

19. Very dry social scene, I feel like I'm treated like a child here, everything is so expensive in this city, would not recommend. I'm transferring.

20. Great school! SOCIAL JUSTICE

21. Great school, great professors.  SUPER expensive though.  I hope you don't eat a lot like me because you'll easily spend $25 a day on mediocre food.  The internet in some places is garbage.  The campus is beautiful and the weather is perfect (to me).  Take a tour.

22. Now my two-time alma mater, I will miss being a student at this University.  Despite it's faults (which I assume every school has in the opinion of the attendees), USF from my experience has the most caring, competent, and notable professors that contribute greatly to the academic experience you will have while there.  There is a lot of history on the main campus as well as many newly added facilities when it recently got a face lift.Across the street from the main campus (also on Fulton Street) is the law school.  If you want a unique legal education with fantastic opportunities to build your skills before truly entering your career as an attorney, this is the place to be.  Zief Library is a beautiful building with many staffed librarians armed with all the resources you need to successfully complete a research issue and draft various legal documents.

23. Did the MBA program. Really good. Awesome professors. Good learning. Superb with Analytics. My interest was in Marketing. Digital Marketing was hardly touched. So if you do this, be sure to supplement your learning by taking it into your own hands; like with General Assembly's Digital Marketing course.Also, the scene with placements and jobs is not active. Needs to be more aggressive and aligned with timeline of company hiring for internships, jobs etc. No on-campus interviews are held. They keep asking you to log into 'Symplicity' portal which has not top-level jobs. They did hold some great Speaker events though.It's an MBA that gives you everything you need to know in Entrepreneurship, Finance etc. Great cultural interactions here with students from across the world. And fab location of the MBA campus - downtown San Francisco. But remember to take your learning and career forward on your own with isolated focus. People who did that went far immediately, to Deloitte, Google and Cisco.Posting this as I know students in far off countries seek info to make critical life decisions online. I am happy with what I did get from USF - Strategic & Analytical thinking. And experience with roadmapping in running the Marketing Club as President. That was the first thing that gave me a sense of taking charge, executing ideas, making things happen for a new audience with new kinds of responses in a new country. The best course, the meat of the MBA was - Strategic Management in a Global Environment by Roger Chen. :)

24. Lost $55 app fee to USF.  Called the director of Graduate Programs and they Informed me they hadn't received anything, not even college transcripts and had nothing to evaluate.  I then called the Records Dept of USF and they had received my transcripts for more than a month.  I didn't appreciate the conflict so I requested a refund after talking with the USF Admissions PM. They didn't respond, however they still decided to do processing  of my application and keep the money.    Not an honest school and they are a Catholic institution. Go figure.  I just read the reviews and appears I have avoided further issues.   I really wanted to go to USF, but now I know.

25. Review is an outsider's view of the campus.I recently visited USF on an informal walking tour.  I was immediately struck by how beautiful the campus was and the surrounding neighborhood very nice (I had no idea!)There are some really gorgeous structures on campus and it's located in the middle of a neighborhood, but doesn't overwhelm it, nor detract from it.When I visited, it was very warm and there were lots of students enjoying the outdoors.  I was particularly glad to see an ethnically diverse student population, not something you always find at other universities.In all, USF is an impressive looking school - small, urban and clean.  I look forward to returning for a formal tour with my daughter this summer.5 stars.

26. USF would like to convince you that it's a diverse, liberal, social justice oriented school as a part of its feel-good marketing sales pitch.They're very image conscious, but on the inside once you've enrolled you might see a different story.But quite frankly, I have never seen such Machiavellian school administration and teachers as I have from USF in my whole entire life. That's not to discount the good teachers I did have in USF.They're more like Mr. Burns in Simpsons, than they are, Mr. Rogers in Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood. That's from my actual experience there.-USF Alumni

27. As much money as they make off of us, their students, you think they could funnel a little more into hiring better staff. Everyone (save one nice man in the office) that I've had the displeasure of interacting with is incredibly rude and unhelpful. They often just try and talk over you until you leave, or give you major attitude. Even the bookstore employees vary from kind to yelling, rude and uncooperative trying to kick you out ten minutes before they're due to close. It's just upsetting. Its like what, 50k a semester to go?

28. Rude! Rude! Staff! Katherine carter? Or krcarter@usfca.edu I emailed her asking a simple transfer question on the nursing program since her name is listed as the point of contact. A month passes and still NO reply. I then called and was told by the person on the line to try to email her because she doesn't answer her phone. I then told them I HAD emailed her a month a go and had not received a response I had even sent her a second email. So then the person finally transferred me to this ladies line. She picked up the phone and was extremely rude and already blaming me for not sending her an email. I argued with her a bit and told her I am looking at the email I sent you right now yes that is your correct email I sent it 4 weeks ago. She was short and cut me off and said " well I will get to it when I get chance, but all of our information is on the website." (Smart tone ass voice). She then said "well I will email you some information when I have time." Hung up. Wow!! Nope don't want to go to this school dealing with people like that! To this day it was been 3 months now and I have not received a reply back. Way to go USF! I am glad I won't be going to your campus.

29. I highly do not recommend this school.  I received a Masters from here and I've come to find out that I am missing courses that are required for licensure.  When I called the school and spoke with Donna, she stated that many students have phoned and she has had to tell them all that they are (as I am) missing two required courses and that it was our responsibility, as students, to take those required courses at another college, as USF does not offer them.  Why were we not told this?  When I asked Donna, she stated, "I don't know, as I wasn't part of that decision."  When I attended the school, I had a miscarriage one semester and the Ethics teacher, Dr. Patterson, asked me to do an extra credit assignment for the two classes I missed (One class I missed because I lost the baby and the next week, I was in the hospital). While the other teachers expressed sympathy and asked me to complete an extra credit assignment, Dr. Patterson had a different game in mind. In addition to the extra credit assignment, he had me take the exam and said I must repeat the class if I got anything less that 90%.  I got 95% on the exam and he then insisted and forced me to retake the entire class.  How ethical is that?I have also had quite a lot of difficulty with the administration department, both when I was attending and now.  The admin staff does not return phone calls and I have found that the only way to get what I need is to drive to the school and talk to the admin staff in person.  I really have deep regrets for having attended this school and now I'm stuck with two extra courses I need to take  - at another school.

30. I am just three weeks away from finishing my first year at USF, I was admitted into their Nursing program after applying three different times. I love USF, personally I have never been in an educational environment, where every single student you come across wants to learn and has so much to offer. It is a great school, and if you can afford it I would highly recommend it. They truly care about educating the whole person, I am so happy in my decision to come here.

31. When I was applying to colleges, I had no idea where I would end up but I wanted to be close to home (somewhere in California) After getting admitted to UC irvine, St. Mary's, Mills college, and USF, I had to choose where to spend my next four years. I decided on USF because it's a private school (no furlough days or impacted classes) I loved the school's location and the amazing people there. I lived in the dorms my first two years and met some of the best people from all over the world. There were a lot of international students in my classes.After being in the biology program for four years, I can honestly say it was the best experience of my life!! I took really interesting biology classes and worked in research. My professors were awesome. They have taught me a lot about biology and life in general. I have no regrets. I've met life long friends and made so many memories with the greatest people. My sister goes here now too. I mean who wouldn't love going to school in the best city ever?

32. This is for the part time MNA (Masters of Nonprofit Administration) program. My cohort was told by USF administration an array of perks and benefits about the program that ended up being false. From the length of the program, to the cost, the flexibility of the program or the ongoing scholarship amounts. When I was admitted to the program, I was given 2k in merit scholarships, and then with one simple email to the admissions counselor, he magically was able to bump it up to 4k after I said that my employer wasn't able to contribute. I was thrilled. He informed me that while that exact amount wasn't guaranteed year to year, it was possible, depending on the pool of money at the beginning of any given school year. NOW, 1 semester into the program we are told by the administration that YOU WILL NOT GET ANY ADDITIONAL SCHOLARSHIP MONEY for the remainder of the program. They "like to save that money for incoming students." Bait and switch.There is a high level of distrust that my cohort and I have, we even went to the director of the program. He met with us, talked in circles and ended up not providing any remedies for THEIR mistakes, misprints online and smoke screens that the admissions office had told us up to the start of the program. Already 2 have dropped from the program, wasting over $6,000. Sad.For a program that has been around for 30+ years, I was hoping for more professionalism. Unless you need a specific graduate degree within the nonprofit sector, please look elsewhere.

33. I am a prospective transfer student hoping to attend the university! I attended the transfer info session and campus tour. I have to say I was amazed in the environment and resources that the university provides for the students. The campus is beautiful, I met a few professors who were very forthcoming, and everything around it in San Francisco is great! Can't wait!

34. Attending here for my graduate studies for Business School of Management - attaining my Master of Science in Organization Development.The entire application process was pretty direct & easy to navigate, the admission response time was quick, the graduate advising office was very nice & helpful, the orientation day was flawless & well put together with keynote speaker even though it was an 8 hour day. The faculty is hysterically passionate about their job, Dean was very personable, intriguing classes, emphasis on ethics & morals which I love, & I am not Catholic but this is a Catholic Jesuit School & their style of teaching is very unique & innovative.The down side, the parking is more difficult & expensive since my classes are at the downtown SF campus. It's expensive for parking in downtown but then again it's the city for you, as expected.

35. It had been quite some time since standing on the university grounds.  I was pleasantly surprised to see all the modern building additions to the campus.  Being a small Jesuit University, one can obtain an excellent education with a personal, more intimate feel than some of the larger institutions.  In the City, infinite resources abound!

36. The bookstore is run by total morons. Don't buy anything from here. They sell you things Usf gives you for free including expensive software.

37. I'm eating my hat. I am so very pleased to report that our student adviser has been replaced! Night to day. Some members of our administration have also turned over. From lip-service to real and substantial service. They care, go to bat for us, have made positive changes and I now feel that my tuition is a better value. The campus is becoming more beautiful. Programs are shaping up and so are their reputations in the job market. Maybe USF received candid feedback about students who didn't sense they were liked. I've noticed a huge change in the way staff and admin treats students. Special kudos for One-Stop staff (enrollment/financial aid office)!One other thing. I had to take a class recently at City College of SF. This place is a like a penitentiary. This made me very, very grateful for USF.

38. I wish that I could give this school a 0 star review. As far as the school being disorganized, that is very true. I was not impressed by the ability of the administration to help anyone. It seems that when they drop the ball, it is the fault of the student no one else. The campus is pretty but it is a glorified high school with a HIGH price tag. The classes are okay but not worth the tuition that is charged. To me it seems the type of people that go to USF are the type that want to be part of a USF clique. A status thing. The school stresses academics but most of the students I interacted with did not have a clue. In the end, USF seems like a money mill that is concerned with its bottom line and gaining more money by misleading students with it's feel good tag lines. As far as financial aid make sure that is in order as I know a few people who were promised the world and received nothing but an excruciating bill. BUYER BEWARE!

39. So many critical reviews! Haters gonna hate.Caring, passionate professors don't exist here? THAT'S A STRAIGHT UP LIE!Disorganized departments? UNHEARD OF!I'm a Communication Studies major, graduating in 2014. All the articles and books I've ever read for core and non-core classes have been highly enlightening. There have been so many interesting and thought-provoking reads!I just have to say that my professors have been beyond awesome! Every school will occasionally have some "eh" professors but the majority of mine have been crazy cool, highly intelligent, passionate, caring and supportive. THE LIBRARY IS AMAZING! It's fun to just get lost in there and explore.Quality computer labs all around the campus. They converted what used to be Parina computer lab and Parina (spacious) lounge that were right next to each other into a huger study area with some private study rooms with TVs/computers.Price is definitely an issue. I WOULD NOT be able to attend this crazy great school if it weren't for the generous asses in charge handing out grants to the students who could use them. I'm really lucky that because of USF's financial aid, I'm able to get a quality education in, arguably, the most beautiful and greatest city in the worldThe crime rate could be lower. We occasionally receive crime bulletin emails from USF. I wouldn't say security sucks because when I lived on campus, I'd see campus security always patrolling around. I'm generally careful walking on the outskirts of campus and have never felt threatened.The campus itself really is beautiful, especially the view from Lone Mountain.For the most part, I've never met any disgustingly snobby people during my time at USF.I thought people were especially friendly freshman year, in the dorms, since everyone'sgetting to know each other so just be social and open that first year.Stay away from the $$$ cafeteria if you're broke.Dorms were okay, not horrid.

40. Overpriced food, beautiful architecture, good professors/researchers, small student/teacher ratio, somewhat inflated tuition, and a strong curriculum. Definitely meets Jesuit academic rigor, but also underrated.  Undergraduates are mostly idiots, but I guess that goes with the territory.Incompetent administration and silly polices - agreed.Still, if you take the good with the bad, on the whole it is more good. Also, I love the social justice theme, and it is not touted as being religious.  I have not encountered any religious preaching or moralistic crap.  In fact, the Jesuits are pretty hands off about this stuff because the undergraduates are pretty decadent, and no one seems to care.All in all, I cannot say it is a waste of tuition because the things being taught here are quite cutting edge, at least in my field.

41. Took a test here the other day. Beautiful campus. That's all I'm reviewing. The experience of being on this campus. Up on a hill. Fantastic set of stairs leading up. Quiet buildings. Never realized it was a Jesuit women's institution! That would explain the Virgin Mary's everywhere. Even a bell tower that chimes every half hour. Just gorgeous.

42. Hands down the most beautiful campus in San Francisco...Awesome professors and students.  Students get a lot of attention at USF.

43. Wow - I am really shocked at some of the negative reviews here. Some people just seem to focus on petty negatives and I also think those reviewers don't realize how grateful they were to experience such a great school. I swear I'm not doing PR for the institution but I was in a terrible place 3 years ago where I was hopeless in getting accepted anywhere (I was living in Europe), and USF gave me a chacne when nobody would. Since that day I have kissed the ground of the school and focused on the positives because you really are lucky if you can get a great, quality education.Anyway...I just graduated this summer!This is my final review for USF, and my experience here these past 2 years couldn't have been more positive.First of all, nearly every class and teacher has been of the highest quality, and they have always cared about my learning and had some sort of personal connection with me. There were maybe 2 professors I wasn't crazy about (who definitely weren't crazy about me either) but that's always expected at any school. Main thing about this school:You are not just a number at USF.Although I was a transfer which made it difficult to make friends initially (transfers tend to befriend transfers), I have yet to meet a douche at this University. The straight guys are the types I wish I could've gone to High School with. People here are open-minded, progressive, but not aggressive or overly bohemian about it. I'll confess, USF is full of stylish, cultured, well-mannered students. I truly love the diversity of this school too. Beyond the aesthetics of having ridiculously hot people on campus, the campus itself is obviously stunning. I love that it is compact and so central in the city. They really take pride in being a San Franciscan institution. Do not come here if you want to be cloistered on campus at dorm keg parties; at USF the campus is both the literal place but more importantly the city itself. I loved the general education classes, particularly Ethics and Theology, and they all taught me to think outside the box without any hidden agenda. As a Marketing major, I think I would've been better off in Advertising, but the business school was still good. Just beware, if you're not a math/numbers person, the School of Management at USF places a HUGE emohasis on all of that. Accounting/Finance/Quantitative Business Analysis/etc galore...which I wasn't a fan of. The Assistant Dean at the School of Management is anything but a sweetheart and she can make life a bitch, but everybody else is quite helpful and dedicated to the students' well-being. All in all, come to USF if you're an open person who likes urbanity, diversity, and a challenging curricumlum, but also a school that allows a healthy degree of study/life balance. The place sparkles, the campus is ultra-clean, and everybody here has a good heart. I loved my experience here, USF has been so good to me, and I thank them for that.

44. Cool

45. I must admit, USF was my third choice behind Cal (my dream school who rejected my application) and Arizona State which I knew nothing about other than it was located in a desert and the students were known to party. As a transfer student from a small junior college, I was seeking to finish my education at a larger school. So with Cal ripping with my heart out, Tempe was now set as my final destination. I had already committed to attending ASU and even had a dorm room waiting for me. But my then girlfriend was accepted down the road at Santa Clara and at the last minute puppy love won out and changed my mind and enrolled at USF so that I could be closer to my future ex.USF is located in a large urban area, and it took some time for me to adjust to big city living. But in time I finally felt at home. And scoring a dorm room in Lone Mountain helped. The view from my unit was spectacular. My room faced north towards the Golden Gate Bridge. The one drawback from living there was being in the Upper Campus left me feeling like I was living on an island and I felt a little cut off from the Main Campus. The Lone Mountain Steps may look beautiful from the street, but try walking (or running) up and down those things a few times a day. I found the teachers to be quite good and very accessible. The class size was small and added to the personal experience. My counselor (I wish I could remember his name), met with me on a regular basis and made sure I was on course to graduation. He also helped facilitate the process of making me "GE Certified", which means that any junior college transfer student who comes in with an AA degree will not have to go back and take additional required lower division coursework. This saves time and LOTS of money, so if you are close to earning your AA, I highly recommend you look into this.The bookstore is small and is in need of an update. I am a fan of the main library, and I believe is as of this writing is going through a makeover. The gym is in need of an update as well as the mens basketball program which has underachieved since making it's return back in the mid 80's. The alumni association does an excellent job at keeping in touch and is a great networking tool.Looking back, going to USF was a positive experience and continues to be a part of my life. My wife and I married there on 2/14/2004 and often look at our photos taken inside St Ignatius and on the Lone Mountain Steps which bring back many fond memories.

46. World's Best Schooooool

47. Proud USF alum who couldn't be more happier with my choice to attend USF. Here's the good, the bad, and the ugly:The Good:- Professors: Great student to professor ratio. A lot of state universities and UCs hold classes with nearly a hundred students. The highest number of students in any of my classes never surpassed 40-45. Having fewer students per professor allows the professors to actually pay attention to the student's progress and learn their strengths & weaknesses. Professors hold "Office Hours" to give students the opportunity to see them for help when they're struggling in class. Believe me, most of these professors give a sh*t about their students.- Diversity: USF has one of the most diverse campuses I've seen. I've always been placed in an environment that was Asian-dominated, so being surrounded by many more cultures was a breath of fresh air. - Location: Being in the heart of the city gives students the opportunity to explore the city beyond touristy attractions. One of my classes during my first year at USF required me to check out Crissy Field for a writing assignment and that's when I learned there was much more to the city than the Golden Gate Bridge and the world's most crooked road.- Size: USF's campus is much smaller compared to other campuses. You never have to leave for a class more than 10 minutes from where you are.- Food: USF promotes healthy and organic food and offers a great variety in the University Center. Some days they'll have special tables/bars (i.e. fresh sushi bar, omelet station, crepe station). - Classes: Coupled with USF's good professors and class size, classes are definitely challenging. Of course, it all depends on how much a student wants to be challenged since they register for the classes of their choice. Professors take attendance, so it encourages students to actually attend the class.The Bad:- Professors on tenure: It wasn't until I took a few classes with some professors on tenure that I noticed they were that small percentage of professors that don't really care about their students. Sure these are the professors students love to hang out with and grab a drink with, but they don't gain anything in the long-run. Students will leave a class thinking they passed with flying colors and are experts only to realize next semester that isn't the case when they take the intermediate version of their class, which is what happened to me. Professors on tenure have no motivation to do well because they can't get fired. No matter how many students pass or fail their class, they've secured a sweet deal for the rest of their career.- Expensive: San Francisco alone is already an expensive place to be in - whether you live there, you're shopping there, or even grabbing a bite to eat there. Being a private university, USF is definitely no exception. Textbooks are RIDICULOUSLY expensive. I've paid over $200 to get the most recent editions of textbooks when older once can easily suffice.In terms of meals, first and second year students that live on campus are given a plan where their IDs are loaded with a certain amount of money they can spend at the Bookstore and on food. When I attended it was $1700/semester I believe. By the end of the school year, students are scrambling to spend every last cent because that money isn't refundable.The Ugly:The administrative part of USF is the worst I've ever experienced. They love to give you the go around, hoping you'll give up when trying to clear up any misunderstandings financially or academically. I can't tell you how many times I was sent the admin area in Malloy to Lone Mountain, back down to Malloy, sometimes to Residential Life only to get nothing done. Many times they would refuse to make a call for me to save me the trip of going back up again. I hate it when people waste my time. If I'm going to be paying you hundreds of thousands of dollars, this is the last thing I would expect from my university.Tips: - RENT your textbooks through Chegg or buy them from half.com. Do NOT buy your books from the Bookstore if you don't have to. - Verify with your professor if you can use a textbook's older edition instead of the latest one. Most of the time they'll say you can.- Never opt into a meal plan if you don't have to. If you want to buy your meals from The Caf but don't want to get taxed, just load some DonsDollars onto your card.

48. There are impacted majors, especially in the arts departments. I was not permitted to add a major for this fact. $60,000 a year apparently doesn't pay to provide enough staff.

49. If I knew what kind of drama would be heading my way I would have gone to a different school. The faculty in some departments don't get along well and it spills over into the students experience. Tuition in INSANE unless you're an ROTC member. Classes are getting cut and there is a lack of school spirit.There are a few professors here that make you enjoy learning and get you excited about classes but they too are far and few between. The best thing about the campus is that there are beautiful views of the Golden Gate Bridge and downtown..

50. I transferred to USF after one semester at LMU, for all the same reasons why USF is getting negative reviews - snobs and rich kids.HOWEVER, because of my experience at LMU, I have to disagree with what everyone is saying about USF.When you're in high school, it's small.  You have not seen the world yet.  Everyone basically acts the same way.  So if you're from a high school with extremely down-to-earth and relaxed students, you think this is the norm.  College is a lot bigger, with people from all over the place.  You're going to meet idiots, b*tches, snobs, assholes, etc, ANYWHERE you go.  However, what makes each college different is the AMOUNT of these socially unaccepted groups of people.LMU was 95% snobs and rich kids.  I transferred to USF and I find myself being a lot more comfortable in my own skin.  LMU is very snobby.  USF CAN be snobby-ISH.So people think USF is bad with the "snobs"?  Go to LMU, or even Pepperdine.  USF is great and it is diverse.  It is not possible to have an entire university with your favorite type of people in it unless you pull an Adolf Hitler.  Then that just puts you in the "asshole" category.

51. Great school to study. The professors are great and they really make the school a positive learning environment

52. I am so proud and thrilled to be going to such an amazing school. I have had tons and tons of help and opportunity, and I feel extremely prepared to enter into the world. The faculty within the Psych Dept. are fantastic and knowledgeable. I believe that their push for social justice is also a great, great thing that all schools need to relay to their students.The atmosphere is great also! The campus is beautiful and the financial aid has been incredible for my younger sister and me.In addition, the surrounding city is just incredible and full of opportunities that most college students and graduates would never have. I look forward to possibly going to Graduate school at USF soon. GO DONS

53. Great School so far:)

54. Awesome school! :-) Completed my MA here and it was sooo worth it! I learned soooo much! I read so much! I got exposed to so much! Professors are awesome: extremely well-prepared and passionate about the subjects they teach. I really couldn't say one bad thing about this school! :-)

55. I NEVER ATTENDED THIS UNIVERSITY, AND THIS REVIEW IS ONLY FOR THEIR ADMISSIONS OFFICE.Their customer service is rude, and the university is greedy for more money. They do not make exceptions to give a $600 refund for a "non-refundable" tuition deposit under any circumstances.

56. I LOVE USF!! Small campus but it is really beautiful! The professors are really nice and care about students. You will feel like you are not just counted as a number but involved by the community. You cannot beat the location: it is safe, 20 minutes MUNI to downtown, delicious Chinese restaurants around everywhere. Students are friendly and helpful. Although it is expensive and does not have as much reputation as Berkeley and Stanford nearby... I will recommend senior high school students to try this school!!

57. UGH.  Let me just say I've been to University of San Francisco several times and done research on its MBA program.  I absolutely am impressed and am particularly grateful that there are also options for stipend for tuition expenses by being a teaching assistant as I've always wanted to teach business for potential students in a more socially-minded, critical-thinking manner.  I've even attended USF's MBA information session as far back as in June 2009.However, something's changed as far as USF's outreach for its graduate programs and in part it could be because the school (at least the MBA program) has relocated to what used to be the old office of the satellite campus of University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business on Howard Street.  In addition, whereas in June 2009 at USF's campus (think it was Lone Mountain one but forget) I got to meet faculty & students in a warm, inviting way, at USF's Downtown campus open houses at Howard Street the tone is different now: You meet mainly admissions advisers, financial aid advisers and some students but no faculty and really no chance to network or follow up and hear more on the program.  In fact, the regular USF MBA program Open Houses are no longer than one hour whereas the one in June 2009 I attended was longer, more low key.  The latter one I attended made me feel faculty and students really do want to welcome attendees and I certainly felt it was a warm environment.  Professors went up to you one-on-one and there was friendly mingling.However, when I finally applied for USF's MBA program July 2013, weeks later I my application was rejected.  Obviously I had every right like any applicant to hear feedback in entirety so if I were to ever apply again in the next admission cycle, I'd know what to expect.Here's the USF MBA Admission Requirements as stated:  usfca.edu/management/gra…Official Transcript(s)ResumeLetters of RecommendationEssayGMAT/GRE (no stated minimum test score requirement)Interview (probably applies if admissions needs to interview applicants)English ProficiencyWell, when I called admissions, one of the advisers, Elisabeth Merkel, told me the reason why my USF MBA program application was rejected was because of low GMAT scores. Disappointed but respective of the decision, I asked her for a fuller assessment or perhaps ability to talk with admissions decision person who chose to reject my application.  She wouldn't go into details, even though I specifically wrote an optional essay (applicants have this option) to clarify that the reason why I got a lower GMAT score (with exception of a high "5" on written essay part of exam) was because Pearson VUE could not accept my documentation verifying my disability for accommodations on extended time on the exam and due to financial burden I could not get a disability reassessment (even though I got reassessment in 2000).  That didn't stick so Merkel went on and in any questions or concerns I had on additional information, she kept saying, "Again...." and then pointed out to me that my matter had to be deferred to Pearson VUE.  Basically, whatever I asked to clarify and what I explained on my application, Merkel was giving me a rather snooty response every time and all about, "next time..." and not even mentioning things I did well on application (like the many extracurricular activities, associations I was apart of and essay).  You could tell my face turned red and I was angry at the end of the call.  I expect more transparency from an admissions department, even if it's to know both positives and negatives about my application.Note I was already trying to leave my MBA program at another school as I needed to graduate from an MBA program with AACSB accreditation (but have to date only taken three foundation courses), I've had to continue to take courses so I wouldn't be wasting more time on my MBA studies and have found SFSU's MBA program to be 1) $45,000+ compared to USF's which is $72,296 and 2) More transparent and accommodating to my needs.  And get this:  SFSU accepts waivers for ALL foundation courses (Financial Accounting, Marketing Management, Financial Management, Intro to Management, etc.) in its MBA vs. USF (which only accepts two course waivers) and the SFSU's MBA program is wait... hear this...  AACSB accredited like USF's!  Who knew?For a school that's supposedly got a focus on community and social issues, USF's graduate business admissions department sure doesn't make it sound like it is with my infighting with them.  The school could be elitist (after all, it's a private school) but that's probably just USF Graduate Admissions.  USF's MBA program has videos promoting its outreach with Salesforce but instead of this, the school should focus on QUALITY, not promoting itself like it's the MBA program for Google & hot-shot entrepreneurs.

58. Too expensive, but easy to get out in 4 years and find a decent job. Small classes, beautiful campus, religion not thrown down your throught. Lone Mt stairs got my ass and legs in sweet shape. Graduated with honors and learned  alot and this may not have been possible in another school. Small though, after 4 years u recognize everyone. Most teachers were great. Dorms sucked. quite a bit of rich kids warning. otherwise the cool international population of students makes up for the twats.

59. Hmmm what can I say about USF? Only that if I could take my college years back I would. Don't waste Harvard pricetags in this school. Really. If you like being challenged, love passionate professors who care, and expect a rigorous yet rewarding college career... then... DO NOT GO HERE!!!In USF, you will encounter the most disorganized private educational institution. No one has their shit together, whether it's the English department, or the business department, or the science department. As an English major we read books that are targeted to highschool students. USF also has an acceptance rate of about 75% (that they keep VERY hush-hush). In order to not offend anyone I won't say much more about this... except that in each class I've had here in 4 years there's been AT LEAST 3-4 students with a HS GPA of 2.0. Some brag about having around a 1.9 yet still gets grants from USF? (We call this school USF - University of Stupid F***sI really wish I could say that my parents' 200k at the end of my 4 years here has done me good. But honestly, if I hadn't of forced myself to read books and articles outside of class my intellectual and emotional growth would be at an all time low. Also, security is shit. Countless robberies, 2 stabbings, some rapes (google Gillson rape 2008), and an unrelated shooting that still occurred on campus.THIS IS NOT A SCHOOL FOR SERIOUS STUDENTS. RUN AWAY!

60. School of Education rocks!! Next month I will graduate with my special education credential and a MA in learning and instruction.  The program drew me because you start working right away while you are in school. It is scary, but I prefer it to taking a lot of theory classes, and then doing student teaching, and then finally start to get paid. You must realize you still don't have a clue about how to teach.Dr. Oh is amazing! My cohort is now 20, so there is a lot of time for individual help when it arises. It is expensive. You're right. There isn't much way to get around that, but you are guaranteed classes and in the time frame they tell you. It is much smaller, so you aren't just one of many faces, and the campus is really pretty. You can sign up for TEAMS/Americorp to help defray some costs, but be forewarned-some of those seminars are just plain painful to sit through.

61. USF is so hypocritical! It touts itself as being a social justice university, yet accepts signing bonuses from huge corporations such as Coca Cola and Nike, which are known to create human rights abuses in India and elsewhere. USF is going corporate, so don't expect much "Jesuit" out of this school! It used to be that if you were schooled by the Jesuits, you had received an outstanding, well-rounded education. Nowadays there are maybe two Jesuits teaching, and the rest are adjunct faculty, who are themselves exploited by the administration. Goodbye, Jesuit education. Hello corporate, bottom line USF.

62. I graduated from USF in 2009 with a degree in Accounting & Finance.  Here's the lowdown:Advantages:1. Small classes2. Beautiful campus3. Great professors (check RateMyProfessor.com to select the best ones)4. Centrally located to everything in SFDisadvantages1. Lacks a collegial community feeling (a decent percentage of students are commuters, there's no dominant sports team)2. Its expensive (live off campus after your first year, avoid the cafeteria!)3. Some of the students are subpar (this is calculus and you don't know what PEMDAS is?)In sum, I enjoyed my time here and I highly recommend it.

63. I didn't go here for school, so I'm reviewing this purely from a visitor/tourist standpoint. This school has a lot of beautiful buildings, and recent construction has made the cafe/dining hall/lounge really nice too. The admin building looks practically like a church! The actual church, St. Ignatius, is gorgeous...definitely take a step inside.

64. Great Art Dept!! Teachers and advisors are here for you! They really seem to care. CAPS is the best place to go to for counseling. UC/SLE building is awesome and has great opportunities to reach out and be a big part of our little (getting bigger) community. On-campus Organization advisors and admin are the best, so helpful and always available for feedback on ideas I've had about my future career goals, plus more. However...Admin. really needs to get their act together. Upward Bound was almost nixed for reasons of "lack of space"... and now second-year students and beyond are being (and have been) pushed out to the SF city for housing because of lack of space. This lack of space created by the larger incoming freshman classes. I love expansion and growth, but that should start after the admin has gotten their act together and really had a solid plan to accommodate ALL. Financial Aid office people are only really helpful if you go to the office up the 150 stairs of Lone Mtn. As an incoming freshman I was not notified about problems with my financial aid as other institutions may do for their NEW students. **emphasis on the NEW.

65. Just a quick visit. Beautiful campus!I love the history there and also all the modern changes they've made too. Their dorm cafeteria is so nice and modern! I didn't try the food but it looked good! The church is breathless! just beautiful! I'm not a student just a prospective student so I can't tell you about the faculty there. But the education there isn't cheap! The gym and Olympic sized indoor pool is AWESOME!!!

66. What other school puts a free on campus ice skating rink in the week before finals? NONE

67. This is for the Lone Mountain Campus...What can I say, I love USF! Awesome location, beautiful campus, diverse population, small class sizes...I'm also a bit biased...I work here and I'm a double alum ;)

68. Graduated in the 1990's. Glad to see people hold the school in high regard. I mean look at SFSU reviews.

69. Graduated from USF and its a awesome school. Tuition maybe expensive but the experience is worth it. Parking is the hardest thing to find, valet parking is an option.

70. Im inthe shool of Ed getting my teaching credential, and I LOVE IT. Inspired classmates, brilliant and accomplished professors, and a beautiful campus with chill atmosphere. I am an athiest Jew, so it speaks volumes that the whole Catholic thing doesn't impede on my education (besides the whole wooden cross over every whiteboard in the School of Ed.).They give 40% disount for working for/volunteering at a Catholic school, which is AMAZING. The office is a bit inundated with beaurocracy, which I am disappointd in, being it is supposed to be a perk of a private school to have a closer-knit sysetm... but hey - welcome to the insitution of academia.

71. This school is absolutely gorgous.  No, I don't go here, but I visited this weekend because I'm applying here.  It's my number one choice.  Now that I've seen the campus, I'm glad.It's a small, 55-acre campus with a little population.  The tour guide told us that class sizes are only about 29 students for core classes.  Which I found really funny, because in my high school, my english class has almost 40 kids.  Plus, there are currently 676 kids in my graduating class.  So, it's nice to know that this school has a personal feel.  Because you have to fight to get know your counselor at my high school.The workers at the admissions office were also really glad to help and answer any of the questions I asked.  I do admit though, it was a pain to walk up Lone Mountain.  I had to go up there 3 times; that's 726 stairs!  (I'm from Houston; we don't walk anywhere, haha.)  But once you get to the top, the view of St. Ignatius church is breathtaking.  I asked some student around the campus how they felt about going there; everyone I talked to seemed sincerly happy.As for the monetary issues concerned with going to this school, I don't see why this school would be too expensive.  They pay 2/3 of your tuition if you get a 30 on the ACT or a 1320 on the math and reading sections of the SAT.  That's cool with me; I got a 28 on my ACT the first two times and I'm waiting for my third scores. :DUSF, here I come (hopefully)!

72. Let me first start off by saying, I did NOT want to go to USF. My parents had forced me to go to this school to be close to home and as a result I hated it for the first 2 years. I didn't make an effort to make friends, i would only be on campus to go to class and I didn't care too much for my grades.After getting over myself, I decided to make the best of my college experience. And now I can say that i loved going to USF and I wouldn't have gone to another college for my undergrad.PROS:-small class size: teachers make an effort to learn your name. most classes take attendance (which many people will consider a con) but honestly it gives you motivation to go to class.-professors: the professors here know what they are talking about. they are professional and knowledgeable and they really do want you to succeed. they provide as much help and guidance as you need.-location: its in san fucking francisco. the best city to go to college in. trust.-extracurricular activities: there are so many opportunities to join clubs, organizations, association, sororities and fraternities. It allows you to meet great people and really get involved. RUSH ALPHA PHI OMEGA!-food: USF has pretty good food compared to other colleges food I've tried. They really encourage you to eat healthy and organic. The sandwiches and salads they custom make are the best! and the sushi bar is bomb as well.-campus: the church is amazinggg and the campus is small but very nice (who really wants to walk hella miles to get from class to class?). Lone Mountain is beautiful and worth the trek up the stairs. When you're in the reading room in LM i swear you feel like your in Hogwarts. They've also recently done some major remodeling and from what I've seen its gorgeous.-the people: honestly what changed my perspective about usf the most are the people i've met. they are amazing and i will never forget the ridiculous memories we've had (ie- jumping in the fountain in front of the atrium on a freezing December night)-academics: the classes will really challenge you at USF. be prepared to work hard. it's really great preparation for joining the work force after graduating. They are also one of the few colleges that provides my major, entrepreneurship. holla!CONS:-the rich kids: I don't have anything against rich people but USF has some weird ass rich kids. You have your hippie rich kids who pretend that they don't come from money by not taking showers and banging on drums on the grass, you have the rich international students that come to class with a new balenciaga bag every week, you have your douche bag rich boys driving around in their lambos and ferraris (parking them in the handicap spaces of course), and you have your rich kids who boost about their wordly travels and immense wealth whenever they get a chance.-Tuition: i'm going to be paying off school loans for a long long time.-University of Single Females: ladies the female to male ratio here is definitely not to your benefit. Hella girls. Very few boys. The boys that are here are slim pickens.. so don't count on meeting your future husband here.With USF you really get out of it what you put into it. The school provides you with the tools to succeed and have a great college experience but it's really up to you to utilize those tools and make it happen. Trust me, i learnt this the hard way.

73. Really with the reviews? USF is one of the most unique schools in the nation. Period. A central location in a world renown city. The classes are small, the people are put together, and the full time staff (in the Arts and Sciences program at least) are quality. You basically live in an oasis as compared to 99% of college students. People have money, understandable when you are going to a private Jesuit-Catholic University. You pay for what you get, a $100 million plus renovation in the past three years to an entire building. It's all perspective.Step off the small campus and you have every and any choice you can conjure up  at your finger tips. Formalities are a fact a life, and without them we would wouldn't have trendsetters, entrepreneurs, writers and artists. If there are no limits to be pushed, than nothing is malleable and therefore we as people cannot change. Another fact of life if "we" truly are given total freedom. For those who do attend the University and do not have endless pocket books - we find things to do: paint, read, write, drink, laugh, burn, free shows, sex ...The difference between me and you and the next guy or girl is WE are doing this in the most free city in the states. Put yourself in the same sort of situation in... let's say Kentucky! or Pennsylvania!? I love it, hate it and try to enjoy it because you truly never know how easy you have it until its gone. Just sayin...

74. I can see that these reviews represent the same assortment of students I recall from my college days:  the serious-minded, the enthusiastic, and the hopelessly-unhappy-no-matter-what-they're-doing.  USF positioned me for life.  I went u/g here and to law school.  Though I know there are fewer Jesuits teaching there today, those good men really made the difference when I attended.  Rigorous.  Demanding.  Business-like.  Committed to YOUR education.  I made friends for life.  We at USF were the envy of our high school peers who attended public colleges.  When they visited, they reminded us of our great community, our cohesive ways, our sparkling-clean facilities - and remarkably small class sizes.  I do have to laugh at the three extremely negative reviews I read - one from someone from Los Angeles, writing and (presumably) behaving as we expect all Angelenos to behave.  I remember those types from my student days:  everybody avoided them, leaving them friendless and forlorn . . . and blaming the institution.  I guess they're everywhere, but they do seem to proliferate in academia.  As to the non-service oriented employees, that - oddly - has ALWAYS been something of a problem at USF.  I don't get it.  It should be corrected.  But there may be union limitations on what they can do.

75. This is regarding the MSFA program.  Save your money! It says the program works toward the CFA exam.  But many students still fail the exam, there is a huge disconnect to that promise.  The professors and lecturers are all good, with a good mix of guest speakers.  But one professor needs a hug every morning.  He is the worst attitude person and unfit for an educator at the masters level. Better fit would be a middle school level P.E. coach.  After-grad job placement or internship is non existent.  These are enough reason to not recommend this program, better yet, stay away.  And the CFA review class is even more of a joke I hear.  The gym rocks tho and gets 2 stars! I just paid 50K for a gym membership!

76. They stole 28k from my parents and two years of my life... but I guess I owe them considering my career. Thanks USF!And I hated walking up them damn Lone Mountain steps! Get an escalator, its not like you can't afford one!

77. I love being a Lady Don!

78. Are you kidding me? Seriously!? The reviews before my post are definitely young trust-fund babies of whom had their tuition paid, so they do not understand the concept of VALUE. For about $45,000 a year, an eager student should not deserve professors who hardly put in any effort to teach a stimulating class. Many students simply take easy classes to make a quick A from professors who hardly care about the importance of true pedagogy. This school is only about profit- not Jesuit values. The most recent of cases: the sale of KUSF for about $1 million (a student run public radio service to enhance the experience of media studies and musical interest). In addition, the school does not even prove itself without outstanding scholars....just look at the past reviews...they are riddled with simple spelling errors! If you are a hard working individual without Mommy or Daddy paying the bills, then please avoid this institution at any cost. It will save you at least $100,000 in debt.

79. USF, great Jesuit education. Beautiful Campus. I'll dock them 1 star cus their men's basketball team sucks...they haven't made the NCAA tournament in almost 10 years.~G

80. USF was a wonderful experience as a college and continues to serve, in some capacity, as the heart of the city. The school is small, hard to find on a map, and not even geographically contiguous (there's a block of housing separating the lower and upper campus).  The school has been rated well by professionals, but that's not what we're here to talk about. Whats the dirt? Was it worth it? Whats it like?  Well here's my 4 year opinion. First off, if your looking for a huge party school or a school with a top rated NCAA team, USF might not be the school for you. What USF is, however, is a good school in an OUTSTANDING city.  Now we do have a pretty good basketball team, and a good baseball team, but we're still a small school, and are blessed/cursed as such when it comes to sports. Same with the party scene. Its awesome that after a few years you'll know damn near everybody who parties on campus, but at the same time, drinking with the same folk weekend after weekend could get old for some folk. The Jesuits make a big fuss about being the 'Jesuit' university of San Francisco, but honestly outside of the occasional priest on campus and crosses in some classrooms, the only impact you'll notice is the large amount of ethics and social justice you'll see in your curriculum.  As for the complaints about being too easy, it depends entirely on what major you pick. Some liberal arts majors are known for being 'easier' than others. Honestly I think it depends on the person and the major. I know plenty of USF kids who could crank out a 15 page paper with no issue but would pay others to balance their checkbooks. As a side note, the School of Nursing is consistently rated among the top in the nation as a nursing school, and the school of business is well regarded among the bay area. The humanities honors program is an outstanding and difficult program, and the Saint Ignatius Institute is a great program as well.  Some issues with USF are the more obvious ones for an urban private school. First off, its expensive. Really expensive. Not only is the school costing alot, but the city itself is one of the most expensive in the nation, so expect to pick up a part time job somewhere along the line. Next, your living in an urban setting, so crime, while never a major problem, must always be something you think about before going out. Finally, USF's greatest asset, its small size, can also be its biggest liability. The place can feel small after 4 years, and should you be the bridge burning type, it can get awful lonely really quick. So was it worth it? Absolutely. Make sure you visit before you accept admission, and make sure it feels right.

81. My only regret with USF is that I didn't come here sooner.  Even though going through my first two year at a community college was a very economically minded and frugal choice, I missed out on two years of this wonderful school.Here are some key points as to why I love USF:Small Class Sizes: Screw those 300 student per class schools.  If you want to be another face in the crowd where the teacher doesn't even know if you're in their class, go somewhere else.  USF has extremely small classes sizes (none go as high as 40, and some dip below 12), which translates into a more interactive and stimulating classroom experience.  One thing I noticed is that you get so much from just talking with the professors during class (or after class, which they are ALWAYS available), that you sometimes don't need to purchase the text books.  And how is this for a radical new concept: teachers remember your name after the first week of class. Student Body: Okay yes we've heard it  before, USF = University of Spoiled Foreigners.  I don't disagree, we have many students that came to the school with a lot of money from their parents.  But by no means does it make this a bad school.  Though some of these students have not been exposed to any "real world" experiences as some may say, they are not socially isolated either.  Some of the nicest people I've met so far I have met at USF.  And since each semester we see each other in numerous classes, it becomes very easy to make great friends.Campus: Don't get me started on this. USF has one of the most beautiful campuses around.  Not only are we situated in a great central neighborhood, surrounded by upscale residential and thriving retail, but our buildings are top-notch.  From the grand Gothic-inspired architecture of Lone Mountain to the modern concrete walls of Malloy Hall. Everywhere you turn, there will be something that helps put a smile on your face.Koret Gym: The student body and faculty have access to USF's Koret facility, a very large and well appointed private gym.  From what I have heard, certain celebrities that are San Francisco residents frequent this gym.  In addition, if you sign up within 1 year of graduation, you receive discounted access (versus $60/mo).Professors: Pretty much all my business professors are not just professors, they are also professionals in whatever field they are teaching.  This means that we do not only get the theory of the subject, but we get a practical view of how things go on in the real world.  Some of my professors have been CEOs of large firms, successful entrepreneurs and industry leaders in their fields.  What does this mean? Connections.  Many of my professors are close friends with other high-level players.  As the saying goes, it's sometimes not about what you know, but who you know.  On top of that, the professors are always motivated and engaging.  They have concern for your education, but let you have enough autonomy to make your own decision as far as what you want to get out of class.  But if there is anything that they can help you with, they always eager to do their part.Ethics: One of the key aspects of USF's education is the focus on ethics.  As a business student, we are not only taught how to achieve the highest number on the bottom line, but equally as important we are reminded and encouraged to make ethical decisions.  A very strong emphasis is put on social responsibility and making sure your actions do not harm others. Forward Thinking: USF is one of the first and top ranked schools to offer entrepreneurship as a major for business students.  One that I grasped as soon as it became available.  Unlike the rest of the business majors which teach you how to be a gear or cog in a large corporate machine, this unique major guides students through the process of conceiving, planning and running a successful business of their own.  Professors engage students in semester-long projects that rarely, if ever, feel like class work. So besides the high price of tuition, lack of parking and missing two years of USF at the beginning, I wouldn't trade my education here for anything.

82. Alright, here's the deal on USF. You can get a lot out of this school if you work hard and become a good student. I was kinda stupid when I was picking colleges...picked some states, random colleges in those states, applied to 9 schools thinking I wouldn't get into all 9. Guess what?? So with all of the schools in front of me I started to narrow down my choices. I ended up in a three-way tie between USF, U of Pacific, Chapman, and another school in New York. I knew I wanted small class sizes, good teachers, and the freedom to explore without having to need a car. U of P would have required me to have a car...and it's in a weird suburban town. The one in New York quickly faded from the list when I realized I would have to learn to shovel snow. I'm from SoCal...that just wasn't going to happen. I ended up picking USF because it was far enough way where I felt away from home, but close enough that I could get there if I needed to.I'm in my third year and I don't regret it one bit. My teachers are amazing, and the class sizes are small. I know a lot of people on campus, and it's easy to find someone to hang out with. I work in the psychology department (my major too) as a teacher's assistant/tutor/research assistant, and they pay me pretty well.Long story short, the city is awesome and if you have to choose between here or SF state, choose USF. It's a little pricey but financial aid helps, as does working. All in all I feel like I am getting a good foundation for the rest of the years I will spend getting my PhD.

83. This is not the school for an older student! This school could never figure out I was not going to live in the dorms and my parents were not paying for my education. I would think my birth date would have clued them in.I went here because I was afraid of the budget cuts with public universities and Cal was next to impossible to get into. I should have done more research on how they handled older students, but I knew many had transfered to their nursing program with no problems. The English department at this school leaves much to be desired. I found out I took three of the wrong classes right before my graduation! My advisor did not understand I was a transfer student, so I wasted my first year at this school taking classes I had already taken at my jc. Great! The English classes were not that hard. I did meet some great people here and the alumni association is good, but only time will tell if it was worth it. If you are over the age of 25 and not going into nursing, don't waste your money on this school.

84. I freaking love my alma mater.  I will get that out of the way not now, but right now. Let's cover the negatives really quick so I can get to the outstanding stuff.  1. Yes, there is a reason that people call it the University of Spoiled Foreigners, U Spend a Fortune, University of Serious Finances, University of Students from Fortunes, etc.  You get the idea.There are over 80 countries represented in the student body.  Many of them come from some serious paper and make no secret about the fact that their mother or father is globally connected.2. The Jesuits stand for social justice and like greening the world, but they like greening their pockets as well.  I think it is $34k a year now just for tuition.  I know that they give grants and aid, but putting 140 large between your ears is a tough pill to swallow.  3. They don't do the PR work that they should, but I think it's because USF gets overshadowed and lost in the Berkeley/Stanford shuffle. Conversely...1. USF is doing something right when people of ridiculous means send their children there in droves.2. It doesn't hurt to have friends like that.3. It is a world class education.  The Jesuits always think out of the box.4. If you aren't Catholic, it isn't oppressive or intimidating to be there.    5. $34k a yr is on par with any other U.S. News Tier I private school.  If you want to play, you've got to pay.    6. The campus is picturesque.  If you are a prospective student and take a walking tour of USF, I promise you, you will have one hell of a time electing not to go there.  The Del Santo reading room rivals any Ivy League reading room.  The lawns are manicured, and in the spring it is a spectacular place to, umm, study...7. Gleeson Library is state of the art.  All the terminals are Macs  that have the PC platform.    8. The University is Tier I overall, top 100 in law, as is the business school.  9. Going to school in San Francisco lines you up with so many internship opportunities, I wouldn't even know where to begin. 10. The USF alumni network is hella tight.  We really do look out for our own.  11. For the love of St. Ignatius, you're going to school in San Francisco!  What more do you want?I BLEED GREEN AND GOLD!!!  GO DONS!!!

85. USF does beat SFSU. C/o '07! (I should've been '08. I have '08 pride, too.)

86. Wow, it's great to see that I'm not the only Yelper who hates USF as much as I do. Props to you Karyn R.This applies to my undergraduate experience:- USF is a mediocre private college- The majority of students are spoiled brats who think they are the shit- Only at USF, will you find a closed-minded gay professor- Many students are trying to live out what they couldn't do when they were going to their private high schools- USF is like another high school with immature people and cliques - Yes, some subtle racism exists at USFOh yeah, and thanks to some people, my dorm floor smelled like chicken and weed for most of the year. Sometimes it smelled like vomit.

87. I love this University.  First off, I made a decision to get my masters degree and didn't know much about USF coming from the East Coast.  I am in their Public Administration program.  I have learned a lot from my studies here, grown as an individual and professional and overall am a better person because of this school and program.  Yes it is expensive, but in this day and age going to UC and not knowing if you even have a seat in class (literally) is not for me.  It is a well respected, well rounded University and I have nothing but good things to say about it.

88. I loved the education I recieved here.  Expensive yes, but well worth the price.  It has opened up many great oportunities and created many fond memories.  I loved the facilites from the Koret Gym, the library... and everything else.  They are always upkeeping and changing making themselves better and offering the students more.  Go Dons!!!

89. Just got accepted here as a transfer student for fall 2011!

90. I always think USF rivals SFSU in low temperatures while the rest of the city stays cozier.. and that's saying something! I've long quit my habit of reviewing copies of the same damn franchise, company, or entity.. whatever you call it. However, I can never let my passion of sparkly clean, upscale bathrooms leave my heart - hence, SFSU and other particular places in SF trump this measly excuse for a washroom.

91. How did I miss this listing? And write a review for the other USF.But, alas, my disgust for USF is so impeding.  I won't hesitate to write another review of this pathetic excuse for a college.Attending USF was like a small, bizarrely competitive, hell on earth.  The overwhelming unintelligent student body is incredibly unwelcoming and uninteresting.  Average, run of the mills nobodies all going crazy for the first time ever in this oh too small campus.The faculty is lacking, the staff is unhelpful and well I just can't stress it enough how insanely typical this gross culmination of predominantly female students is.  If you are down to chill with a bunch of one-dimensional wanna-bes.  By all means USF is the school for you, if not look elsewhere.Personally, I'm not into chilling with losers and whores.  If I wanted to hang out with pretentious people who try to hide their excessive insecurities by overcompensating with poor physical appeal and unoriginal style -- I would head to the Marina.PS Regarding the location.  I don't know how many times I have received emails notifying the student body of on campus crimes that have occurred.  Seriously, robbings, break ins and rapes all nothing new to the fabulously shady University of San Francisco.Shit other chicks were stealing my laundry out of the drying machines.  I know I have great clothes but please buy your own!

92. My alma matter as of two months ago!  I am going to miss this place, the times, the people, even the classes. I certainly won't miss the food or the health clinic, but hey, they contract those out. Unfortunately since I got my BA I'm less marketable for a job than ever before, but I point the blame at the economy (that means you Mr. Greenspan!)

93. I attended University of San Francisco for part of my undergraduate degree. The school is well located,small, and pricey like most  private colleges. The Princeton Review claims that the student body at Univ SF is one of the most diverse in the country. USF's location and size means that one will meet plenty of people and always find a plethora of things to do. The Jesuit environment and the small class size = students are not just a number in a lecture hall but recognized individuals. So you better show up to class.IMHO - U.S. News places University of SF on the third tier in their rankings . If USF were to be ranked against liberal arts colleges instead of giant research universities USF would fare much better. It's a wonderful school.

94. I've never been happier at any other school. USF provides a nearly perfect degree completion program. It's been about 10 years since I started going to college but I'll finish up my BS in Information Systems on December 14th :D Here are a few of the things I love about USF:SMALL CLASS SIZE: Anywhere from 6-11 people. And we stay each other from class to class, cohort style.NO SURPRISES: They give me a degree evaluation after every semester to ensure I'm on track for graduation. They also register for classes on my behalf and  every class is held in the same classroom.PROGRESSIVE: I was a bit worried being a gay and going to a Catholic school but they are totally cool. Our first ethics professor was a gay pastor. They are also progressive with technology and even have Internet2.ACCESS: I've never had as much access to online catalogs as I have with USF. The library system subscribes to allll sorts of services. Oh, and the library was built by one of the people who started Adobe. It's huge and beautiful.F TESTS: Most of our classes have projects where we can prove ourselves instead of giving dumb tests. I hate tests. Especially ones that play tricks or test on trivia. AWESOME: Mind blowing views, the IS curriculum suits my interests. English, Ethics and Technology. Also, public transportation takes me straight from work in the financial district to school in 20 minutes I'd like to give this school 4.5 but I can't so I'll round up just because I'm so happy there. The downsides include:- I have enough English classes (7) to get an English minor but they don't "mix schools" so I can't. I can't even try for a double major.- Some people in our cohort have had bad experiences with admin staff.

95. I graduated from USG recently. It's not a bad school, definitely. I would say I liked it, but at the same time I didn't. I didn't like all core requirements, some of them are pathetic, instead they could strengthen majot classes. Some of the professors are terrible, some of them are amazing. Aand what's really funny: for some reason, USF likes to keep terrible professors, and fire good ones. I had experience four times during my 4 years of going there.The food: The food is damn expensive, but it's OK - eadable! Could be better.The dorms: from the first day of my schooling, I was renting my own apartment. The dorms are not that great. For those money they charge, they could build much better dorm rooms. I don't recommend to live there!The services and offices: Some of the office workers are not professional at all. In admission office, some of the people don't know what is going on. There is one guy, who works perfectly and very professional. From the first day you will be coming to admission office, you would recognize this guy (he is asian, I believe). He is amazing!Classes: Most of the classes are well equipped and good to be at. But some of the classes are terrible.Overall, it's not a bad university, but the main bad thing - it's very high priced - not worth it at all!

96. If you judge this school on academics alone, then this school is easily up there with the bad boys. My only gripes with this school is the fact that you're paying an arm and leg for it. But it's not the education I'm referring to. It's cheap compared to the big boys but all the amenities don't match state schools. I mean what's the deal with parking? I know it's scarce but can't you build a parking structure that's taller than 2 stories? I went to San Jose State and we had 4 parking structures all at least 4 stories tall. Is there some kind of building ordinance in SF? I mean pier39 has a taller parking structure. And if I'm paying to go to such a great school then the bookstore should be open all the time. The cafeteria setup is kind of dumb. They weren't using their brains when they made this place. They seriously need to update this campus. State schools look ten times better than this at 10% of the education price.

97. my professors were cool, but that's probably cuz I was a business major. A lot of them are still my mentors and references whenever I need a referral. I've heard my friends who studied something else rant endlessly about their unreasonable courses. I'm grateful. I basically got my first job because of USF. It's pretty highly viewed locally. I don't know how far that degree will take you outside San Francisco though.Met some good people, who introduced me to more good people outside USF. It's a good school if you're not seeking the whole college atmosphere and school-spirit kind of environment.Small class sizes is a plus. I'm glad I didn't have to fight to get in my classes.

98. * Review of Campus Only *Any SF peak-bagger or just plain walking enthusiast owes a visit to the USF campus (if you're in northeast GGP, it's not too far of a detour).  St Ignatius church is, to me, the most memorable church in the city, and the most striking view of it is from the Lone Mountain campus, with the cypress trees in the foreground and Mt Sutro in the background.  In the late afternoon light, this is a wedding-caliber photo op.  Also, as Lone Mountain is a deceptively tall peak, you can get a unique and surprisingly vertiginous view towards downtown if you walk around the east side of the Lone Mountain building to the patio in back. Just note that, somewhat counter-intuitively, there are no real views of the Golden Gate Bridge to be had.I've always felt that the lack of a large, historic, and stately university campus has been a drawback of SF, but petite USF gives you a tantalizing taste.

99. What a beautiful campus, apparently not in a sunny spot if the misty city yet squinting, you can make out the feet of Golden Gate Bridge. What a great canteen, stock up on your superfood protein shakes here.

100. I went to USF as a guest student for the fall of 2005 after my school in New Orleans cancelled the semester due to Hurricane Katrina.  The circumstances surrounding the experience were as unfavorable as can be, but the community welcomed us in with open arms, allowed us to register for classes two weeks late, provided housing for out-of-state refugees (I'm a native so I got to live at home and share one car with my sister to commute everyday....just the way I wanted to spend my senior year of college) and really made room for us the best they could.  I will say, however,  I did not find any of the classes particularly challenging.  I think it was harder for me to get an "A" my university.  Also, none of the students I met seemed particularly jazzed about being there.  It seemed to be a lot of people who transfered from other schools, or who were in the process of transferring someplace else.  Also, getting my transcript from them was a pain in the ass.  Whatever, I did my thing and was on my way in December.  In a situation when every little bad thing can look 10x worse,  USF did its best.

101. Uh, go Dons!!!  I wish we had a better mascot....This place forces you to go to class (they take roll!), attendance counts!  Ergo you will probably learn something or fail.  No matters, it costs alot but you DO get an education.

102. USF Dons Volleyball @ War Memorial Gym Our Polynesian dance troupe was invited to perform at halftime during the Dons' sixth week of West Coast Volleyball conference play vs. the St. Mary's Gaels on Saturday, 11/4, and it was actually my first time to watch a college volleyball game.  So exciting and War Memorial Gym was incredibly clean.  We had a rehearsal scheduled that morning, and over six hours before the game was even set to begin, the maintenance crew was already cleaning up, setting up the bleachers, scorekeeper tables and setting up all the A/V requirements for the evening --- very impressive preparation.  Some of the men's basketball players were in practice so it was a nice way to start the morning!Later that night, the game was extremely exciting --- these women were absolutely athletic; leaping, blocking, rolling around just to soften their landing and flow with the momentum of their incredible feats.  I hadn't played volleyball since Jr. High and only watch it when it's highlighted on ESPN, so I was completely surprised at how energetic and intense the game could be.  I was a bit thrown off soaking in the dynamics of the game --- after each play, good or bad, the teams would quickly gather 'round and hug each other!?  I guess it just threw me off cuz' it just looked awkward --- such insincere quick embraces and pats.  But it was all good.  The guy doin' the play-by-play had some hot tunes goin in the background and there was nothing but love in that gym!I'm giving USF's War Memorial Gym 4 stars for havin' a great Volleyball team, awesome gym, and convenient street and lot parking nearby.*The Dons finished the night recording their 20th victory!  (Just the second time in program history).** maybe USF would've gotten 5 stars, but they have atleast one alumnus who is not such a nice person anymore. immature of me?  maybe.  but it makes me feel better to write it out... heehee.

103. I went to SHCP for high school so I'm a little turned off by the Jesuits, but I must say that this my first time to step foot on this nice campus. Walking up from the "mountain side" or I guess the Turk St. stair entrance provides for a good panoramic view of some parts of the city. Went over here to meet up with someone so I didn't have a total look at the campus. Just went to the library which I must also say is nice looking too. I like that waterfall thing they got going by the entrance. My only complaint is that the study rooms on the third floor are a bit stuffy considering it was a hot day today. Location wise, it isn't that bad either. It's close by Geary and Clement both of which have bars and a variety of restaurants to go to. You'll never be bored.

104. I spent 1999-2003 here at USF and I loved every minute. The professors were awesome, classes were small, the campus was intimate. St. Ignatius Church is simply beautiful, and you can't beat World Fare!

105. I totally have mixed feeling about this university. When I was at the school (from 1996-2000), I found that the financial aid office and their administration was horrendous and extremely unhelpful.Another thing that really sticks out in my mind was when I graduated, the school did not issue my diploma for close to 6 months claiming that I still had 6 units to make up because they had changed the Philosophy requirements during my last semester. Of course, I cried and cried because that incident totally tainted my memories of even receiving the gosh darn piece of paper. Mind you, in the end, this was an administrative error. I did complete all of the required units and I should have received my diploma 1-2 months after I walked. In any case, those were a couple of major hurdles of my undergraduate life at USF. Overall, I don't regret my experiences. I must have liked the school since I ended up double majoring and staying for an extra semester. Just word of caution, for those interested in Psychology, the department (at least, when I was there) was extremely research oriented. Much of the work, aside from your normal test taking has a heavy clinical focus. So, don't think that you will get much of a humanistic side to Psychology. Not good or bad but this department was very exclusive versus inclusive to those that were research inclined. Why did I end up staying with Psychology, you ask? Simple, I wanted to get the heck out of the school so I overloaded on classes and took way too many to just minor when I took up my second major.So, on the flip side, my other major, Philosophy was wonderful. I learned a lot about what I love and what I am passionate about because of the Philosophy department. From Analytic to Continental to Eastern Philosophy, I was able to get a grasp of many types of movements that gave me a good breadth of knowledge of the entire discipline. The professors were also very inclined to having informal discussions with their students and there was a lot of inclusiveness. Granted, it's probably significantly different now but I was pleased with this department immensely. To sum it up, USF is a decent place. It's selective enough that you get a good mix of highly ambitious and easy going, lax students who are deceptively book smart. Regarding tuition, I do agree with the consensus (very pricey) but if you can land a scholarship or get into a special honors program, it's probably worth it.

106. I transferred here a year and a half into college.  Then I studied abroad for a while.  Somehow I managed to graduate in 3.5 years with honors and had more fun than anyone else doing it.  Oh yea, they've offered me a full ride if I want to go for law school.  What's not to like?

107. Here's another urban university!  Twice as nice as the one across town.  Centrally located, smaller, more intimate.  Kinder, more polite.  Personal attention in the classroom.  They keep in very close touch with their alumni.  Truly, I love this school!

108. 4 Years of college is what you make of it.USF was my 1st pick and overall I enjoyed my experiences coming away with a bachelors degree (yes, the diploma is locked away so the grad center/admins cannot get it back!)  Overall, very : )Small classes (exception  would be a couple of GEC/science classes but it is not too large), seeing your professors during office hours (no take a number wait in line for hours and when the time comes, get an angry TA with a couple of mountains of blue books wondering what you want), a writing and learning center if you need help with papers or subjects.  Also the Koret Center is available with an olympic sized pool, basketball courts, weight rooms and various execise equipments.The "big ticket" items are the nursing program which has a solid national reputation while the business school has local connections, especially the hospitality management program.As for things to do, from all directions, you can either walk or take a bus ride to various sights and destinations around The City.  Also do not forget the athletic events on campus.  Men's soccer made its 3rd straight trip to the NCAA Tournament, men' s basketball with all its history and traditions plus 2 NCAA Championships and 1 NIT title, and baseball being the defending WCC champions in the upcoming 2007 season.BTW, there are 104 steps that lead up to the Lone Mountain Campus.  Once you reach the top and face south, you see the Haight-Ashbury District.The bad... cafeteria food (no duh) as the food service has the monopoly, including the "student runned" Crossroads.  Overall, the value vs quality/quantity question will pop up very often.  Parking is very tough (double no duh) since it is residential 2 hour BUT if you park on the campus side + check out the street cleaning signs = park all day!  Tuition is a bit pricey thus the "did I get my monies worth" question but I will agree with Kristina R. the knowledge obtained will help you on Jeopardy.  As for the dormitories, "comfortable" in a loose sense; with 900+ freshmen/1100+ new students coming in makes things a bit tight.Overall, USF has a nice collegiate atmosphere.  If a prospective student, take advantage of a campus tour courtesy of the Admissions office or the Open House events they hold during the academic year. If visiting, lots of photo opportunities such as the St. Ignatius Church and Lone Mountain campus.

109. Monopoly?? I think so... I really do like USF despite my rants.. I love my teachers, my peers (well maybe not my peers,) the staff.. The one place I DO NOT like is one stop and bon apatite. Could these people get any more retarded?! As for my education, It's been great, and although some of you people may complain about the small classes, try taking a class with 200 people and seeing if the professor remembers your name then??

110. I'd say that the biggest hurdle to attending USF is price--yes, it's as expensive as you'd expect a private college in the middle of San Francisco to be. That said, you get a lot for what you pay if you take the initiative to get involved and get your money's worth. Work hard and explore ideas in classes that don't always expect a lot of you. High school proved more difficult for me, academics-wise, but hey, that just left plenty of time for extra-curriculars and exploring other fascinations. Some teachers are brilliant--recognize when you're in their classes and take advantage. Some fellow students will be brilliant as well. You can't expect all to wow you, of course, but every school has its spectrum of intelligence.I transferred into the graphic design program my sophomore year, and despite all the bitching about USF's abandoning its partnership with neighboring art school CCA, I'm more than happy I participated in the budding cauldron of artists and artist egos, students and faculty alike. In general, students seem to complain a lot at USF. Students all over have a lot to complain about, but I find that education is what you make of it. You've only four years: way too short a time to transfer around more than once or twice in hopes of finding the perfect school. Expect only a minimum of hand-holding, learn to navigate some rocky seas on your own, and you'll leave as an adult ready to face the real world.Oh, and try to have fun while you're at it--you're in the middle of San Francisco, for Christ's sake!

111. I transferred to USF my junior year from College of Notre Dame in Belmont.  I have to say that it was the smartest move I made. I think the professors are top rated. My business classes combined books and real world experience. I was part of the Hospitality Management program and though most of my friends thought I had it easy the classes were challenging. What other program makes you do 800 hours of  internships plus go through other classes that demand most of your free time? Not many. Even though, I would recommend aspiring hotel and restaurant managers to see what it's all about. It is a great program, small enough to get the individual attention yet big enough to explore your options. Overall, I am happy with my USF education.  What you put into it, is what you get out of it.

112. VIRGIN VAULT, TAMPON TOWER -- Names affectionately called the girls dormitory I got stuck in my first year. Was assigned to the 5th floor where the nuns lived along with the other local girls that tried to side-step the "under 21 live on campus policy."
MY PROFESSOR: Welcome to USF. We are going to start off the course by talking about the evils of Advertising. Please tell us your name and major. ME: Tanya...BFA...uhm...Advertising.
MY EDUCATION PART OF MY RESUME: Jesuit studies by day, Exacto Knives and worshipping all things Apple Computer by night. Was a USF / Academy of Art College cooperative BFA kid. 
STUDENT TYPES: Those hoping to become Mrs. Something-Or-Other Esquire, those hoping to be community or world leaders, and those that simply like to be challenged. 
USF's mission is to educate through compassion for and understanding of other cultures. Very international views. Don't think because it is Jesuit that other religions are barred from here. Center for the Pacific Rim and various programs with other countries such as Tibet are housed there. Dalai Llama keeps close ties to the school. Jesuits are liberal thinkers. Side Note: One Jesuit prof was a former liquor rep with Southern Wine & Spirits. 
What else. The campus is haunted. A famous movie is based on  Lone Mountain Campus. Great alumni activists. Buggers keep calling me for annual giving.
SERIOUS STUFF. USF isn't for the read and regurgitate kids. The small class sizes filter out the lazy thinkers easily. If you want to be one of the best of the best and practice some ethics in the process, you will be all the richer for having gone to USF. (Heh, but you may just be paying back the loans for a while.) Wouldn't trade the experience for the world. Many friends have gone back for further education. For those that complain about tuition costs, USF is known as having excellent value for a private school. Take advantage of tuition caps and pack in the units...when you say your prayers every night, remember to thank the alumni who donate to help keep tuition down...

113. GO DONS!
PMC forever!
Gotta love the Jesuits!

114. USF is getting better. it is a hidden Gem. often most people think going to USF to escape from Hard work from other Univ such as USC, etc. Whack, Bang. "This school is harder than i thought" she said. i replied, "Dont worry, i assure you that it is only the beggining. Wait till the mid semester. it is even more challenging. I suggest you go to USC if you cannot handle USF" Doh, "Ofcourse USF is harvard of the West and Harvard is USF of the East," said Prof. Dennehy a long time ago.

115. though i didn't  attednd college here, i spent some time in the libraries cramming for my tests, nice campus.and cool people.

116. I hated 43% of my USF experience. If you want to know the best part buy an anthology I am in. I discuss my experiences there. Here is a link: rebelsatori.com/index.ph…

117. I don't know what the education's like, but the grounds are beautiful, and well worth a walk if you're a tourist in the area. St Ignatius church likewise is lovely.

118. Fast forward 3.5 years after my first review... my first run at USF was back in the early 90s... I am back! This time around I am in a graduate program. My gripe with USF was with the now non existent Bursar. So... yes... I hated on them, but now that I am older... I know better and I am on top of it so I will NEVER fall into hating them again... so far I have had to do a lot of crazy navigating in order to get what I need, but I think I will survive. The campus is more beautiful than when I was there. Let me tell you, it is as if I had never been there... things look and operate very differently. Still expensive, but the program works for me as a working adult. I will update this once the fall semester is over to see how things ended. For now... GO DONS ;) I can't believe I am back... and even giving them money to be part of the Alumni association... there went my work of many years getting off their lists. Oops! :)

119. Loved my experience at USF but cannot give it 5 stars because Eddie Sutton is a walking anus.

120. I love this place. I've only been here for two semesters (which I'm still completing) and I'm having a blast. Everyone here is so nice and helpful! Teachers actually beg students to visit them during office hours and tutors can be found in one place. There's a cafeteria that serves almost everything (even though you get sick of it after a while...) and if you don't want that you can go to the student run cafeteria or the cafe down stairs. There's also a Jamba juice! Koret gym has EVERYTHING! And it's clean. Students are always updated on crime bulletins, website updates, internet problems, basically anything via e-mail. The library is an awesome place to study (even if you aren't in the atrium.) And they're starting to include graphic novels! (yaay!) I can go on forever...but I don't want to. Yes...this school is insanely expensive but you make the best out of your money by doing all you can with what the school provides. And this school provides. Yes it does...

121. Other than the incredibly sheltered and sometimes boring undergrads, this school is really incredible. Exploring the campus alone leads you to some amazing views and discoveries, a buried statue here, a "secret garden" there, a fountain over there, and not to mention the incredible and intricate St. Ignatius church. The classes were also very challenging, I majored in Media, so be prepared to work, but also to learn a helluva lot in return. The professors take their jobs seriously and are very passionate. The nuns and fathers walking around add dimension (I came from a public high school), not to mention the ghost stories involving the main campus dorms and the secret lone mountain rooms. This school is one of the best!

122. OWTH... 5 stars. I graduated from here. Had some good times. Don't miss the campus food. Things have changed since I've graduated that it no longer is what it was like when I went there... USF is growing, expanding. But yet, the number of stairs leading to Lone Mountain remains the same. Go Dons!

123. this place is stupid.it makes dana busy and have work.  i hate you, usf.i hate you.

124. My alma mater!!!  Go Dons!!!

125. This is a super expensive glorified commuter school.  Although we were assured during the campus tour and registration that our son would have 2 years of guaranteed on-campus housing, this was not the case.  For his sophomore year he was placed in a dorm more than 1 mile from the main campus and told to take the bus or walk to campus.  If we had wanted for him to have a commuter school experience, we could have chosen hundreds of other schools.  When I called to complain I was told to basically read the fine print.  Therefore, we are paying almost 50K ( tuition/room) per year (does not include food) for a university with limited programs that does not guarantee on-campus housing for its underclassmen and that is ranked by both Princeton Review and US News in the low 100's among American universities.   This is a bit overpriced for an academically average commuter school.  Needless to say, our son is transferring elsewhere for his Junior and Senior years.

126. As a MBA Alumni, I definitely like USF.  I defintely like the location of the school, being very close to downtown, making it easy to intern and find a job after school.  Go to love the Jesuits

127. Major selling point: The Del Santo Reading Room on the upper campus, Lone Mountain (formerly an all-women's school in the late 1800's). It's an Oxford-esque study hall (with big open-able windows, beautiful long wooden tables, individual lights, and steam heat) that is a sanctuary for me. There is no supervision (like with a library) so you can sleep and eat if you like. I studied there during two of my three years at USF (class of '93). Then I studied there for my MA (taken at SFSU) and I study there now during law school (currently a 2L at New College soon to be JFK-Berkeley). To boot I had a "spiritual awakening" in the spring of 1993 while attending USF. USF is Jesuit but I did not feel remotely put upon by religion---instead I just soaked in the goodness that can come from such an atmosphere. Kind of like a church. Small classes helped. And I became president of the Society for Pre-Law Students. I'm still nostalgic for my time there.

128. I am finishing my first class as of this writing in the School of Education, a 20-class post-master's program leading to the Ed.D. The class was a barn-burner. Wow, very cool. Professor cares and it a top person in the field (the field being a little hard to describe, but sort of where business meets philosophy meets international development). Part of what I like is the wide-openness of the program. Sure, Cal or Stanford would pack more punch behind its doctoral degree, but you'd also have to do a lot of things in the orthodox way, and put up with more shit. I think if you are wealthy or have plenty of reason for the government to give you financial aid, you would do well to go to graduate school here (well, at least in the Organization and Leadership department of teh School of Education). As far as snobs and dorm nightmares, I'm afraid I can't speak to that - the average age in the program is probably 40. The gym is decent, but part of the four-star rating is that there is no steam room or sauna - what, are Catholics against such things??  Oh, interestingly, the only Catholic element I really see is the fact that the professor happens to be a Christian (or Catholic, I don't know) and a couple students in the class are actually "brothers" and by that I mean like junior priests, oh, and there is also a bit of an emphasis on "go out there and do some good wtih your degree" - which is part of the Jesuit philosophy, which is what this school subscribes to. There motto in fact is "Educating hearts and minds to change the world."  Come to think of it, *could* Cal or Stanford equal that?

129. What can I say - this is my Alta Mater so 5 Stars all the way baby!!!

130. Wished that I had followed the St Ignatius program of critical thinkers rather than pre-med. Very small classes, very interactive, and a hidden party school. Really great professors and campus life and being in SF in my 20's was the way to sexual enlightment.

131. 3 stars, as I agree with Monica as it seemed too easy for me ... now Grad School is kicking my butt.  No scholorship for me, and no financial aid either.  That is one hard check to write!!  Small classes, at least once you are in your major, allows more individual attention.  Plus for the guys, the female / male ratio was like 3 to 1.  My least favorite class was Public Speaking ... I have a short horror story for those interested.  Climing up the 106 steps to the Lone Mountain Campus, that the Blue Angels use as a guide for direction, was not much fun.  Still a very good education!

132. First off I gave 3 stars because USF is a pretty pricey school. Granted I had a great time in college and met a bunch of awesome people. I got a good solid degree and never had a problem with getting into the classes I wanted. USF can get you a degree in four years, yay! Some good professors, some boring ones. Advisors are always booked and busy. All in all, I'm glad I went there.

133. Good weekend runs, Saturday mornings 9-12 and Sunday 8-11.  Sunday is an older game, but usually 2-3 courts running at once on both days of the weekend.  Always a younger game during the week after 5pm.

134. USF has a successful track record of Adult Education programs. Whether returning to University to obtain a Teaching Credential, a law degree, or an MBA, USF works in harmony with your work schedule to obtain another degree with out committing to a full time curriculum. A beautiful campus, small class room sizes, and large alumni pool make this worth investigating. Inquire with your employer regarding tuition reimbursement, as this Jesuit education doesn't come cheap.

135. eh if you want to pay $866 a unit to be back in a school that reminds you of high school then this is the place to go. it such a small school that everyone who lives on campus knows each other. i met some of my closest friends there but jeez.

136. I am 4 weeks away from finally graduating college after changing my major several times and attending three other schools, believe it or not.  I have been at USF for 2 full years and 95% of my professors were excellent, but a few were extremely dry.  I feel that it was money well spent and I landed a job at a local accounting and consulting firm by using school resources.  My only gripe is that the "advisors" in the business school are completely clueless as to what classes you will need to graduate in a certain amount of time.  Do your own research, they are very unhelpful.  That aside, the Koret athletic center is well kept and modern, and never very crowded.  I have also attended the University of Colorado, a state school in Colorado and the Academy of Art College in SF.  C.U.'s classes were 5X as large as USF's and the job market coming out of the Academy was grim, and that is why I switched back to studying Fianance.  Top Five Professors: East Asian History - Uldis Kruze, assorted business classes - John Miller, Quantitative Business Analysis - Joel Oberstone, Asian Spirituality & Religion - John Nelson, Business Law - Andrew Yee.  Go Dons!

137. I wouldn't trade my USF education for anything. Unfortunately, I will be selling my firstborn child to pay for it, but it was worth it. I can see how some may find certain programs too easy, but it's the kind of place where you make your own education. It's a halfway decent education for lazy minds and trust fund kids, but a really excellent experience for the self-motivated.  Challenges and new experiences are available to you if you're willing to go after them, sometimes through unorthodox channels. I had some incredible professors and some mediocre ones, but the avenues that were opened to me at USF are priceless. I never lived on campus or did the whole dorm/cafeteria thing, so I can't really speak to the availability of a "typical" college experience; I've heard mixed opinions on that situation. But, there is so much room for creating your academic program, and so much individual attention from instructors, that I would recommend USF to anyone who likes to feel that their school knows them as more than their SSN.

138. generally very polite undergraduate students. workers wages rather jesuital low. catholic discipline. GREAT library. GREAT Olympic sized swimming pool. Tuition much too high relative to lower quality of instruction, but nice small size of classes and better civility amongst students in graduate courses.

139. I loved USF. The focus on education paired with community in a diversity city made for an exhilarating 4 years. Located in one of the best cities in the world and led by the Jesuit order, things seem to fall in place and perfect example of the real world has to offer. Go here, you won't regret it.

140. The school has changed since I attended, but the part of USF I appreciated the most was the fact that the entire city became our classroom. THe diversity of the student body also played a major role in shaping my college experience. Hving professors who also had careers outside the school, as well - was a big bonus. The spiritual component of the Jesuit education can also not be given enough credit.

141. University of San Francisco is a great college. I did a professional degree program for working adults. This is a wonderful way to obtain a degree while working full-time. USF provides this program with all the perks typically given to younger students who attend the actual campus by providing us a satellite campus that gives us the feeling of the university's feel and services. Financial Aid works with students to assist them in quick and very helpful ways. The advisor I had was always available to assist me in graduation inquiries as well as personal crisis. The USF family is a great family to be proud I received a degree from.

142. Some instructors were great. Others not so great. Guest speaker was not helpful but was used twice for cardiac lecture. Did not prepare me well for teh NCLEX.

143. The education I received at USF greatly enhanced my learning and knowledge of the nursing field. My professors and classmates shared invaluable knowledge and insight into nursing and I found my education at USF to be superb. The program was intense, but with the help of my classmates and faculty, I feel that I was able to gain the tools and skills needed to be an excellent nurse.

144. My graduate study experience at USF was amazing! The students, faculty, and university community contributed to enhancing my overall well-being as a clinical nurse leader. I am proud to be an alumni from this prestigious university!

145. My review is pertaining only to the nursing graduate program. I cannot be sure students in other departments within the school had the same experiences as I did. The admissions and management component was disorganized. Clinical sites may change spontaneously or the office is behind on a deadline, causing students to fall behind on paperwork as well. There seems to lack communication between faculty and students. Students are sometimes blindsided by logistics we did not know we had to take care of personally. We assumed the school would take care of something for us, or at least inform us to take care of it; however that was not always the case. Other than that, the teaching staff is fairly knowledgeable and approachable. It is a quick 2 year accelerated masters program, which is great. If that is what you want, and can be patient enough, self sufficient and resourceful, then the office management issues won't be a concern.

146. The clinical rotations were not arranged far enough in advance and some students were left to fend for themselves for clinicals. I will mention that our program was not the only one to have issues with clinical placements as there are far too many nursing programs in the San Francisco Bay Area and not enough hospitals to accommodate all the students in need of placement.

147. USF is a beautiful school with an environment conducive to learning. A student has free range to study individually or in groups in all areas on campus at any time of day. The library is top notch. The school of nursing at USF seems to always be struggling. As a student, you will need to be very flexible with change. Some of the professors are amazing. However, there were a few that were actually pretty mediocre. Considering the amount of money tuition is I had expected all professors to be stellar. It is really up to you to make the education what you want it to be.

148. For anyone who chooses the Masters Entry Option program for nursing, your two years will pass very quickly. You will both love and hate the cohort model it uses. A Facebook group will emerge, cliques will quickly form, and people will get very irritated when you sit in "their seat." On one hand you will at some point get sick of seeing the same 30-something people all day, everyday, for two years. But on the other hand, you will become intimately close to some of these individuals and you will know more about these people than you do your kindergarten best friend. You will attend class in the same two buildings for two years: Cowell Hall and Lone Mountain. You will occasionally trek to the simulation lab where any confidence you once had in your nursing skills will be shattered into a million worst-case-scenario related pieces; months to years later you will find that those lessons are the ones that stick best. Your instructors will come to know you by first and last name, especially if you are one of the 3 males in the class. No matter how feel about group work, you will learn to get along, distribute work, and call out the slackers in a diplomatic and tactful way. You will be able to teach a class on APA-formatting. The words "evidenced based practice/EBP" will come up at least once daily. You will embrace social justice and liberal yet responsible thinking toward the distribution of healthcare resources. You will feel lost for months, until one day, in the middle of clinicals, you will feel as though everything suddenly clicks, and you will confidently hang your fluids, prime the line, and start infusing your meds into your patient. Overall, USF's CNL masters entry program is effective. It really seems to teach "design thinking": why are things done this way? Why not that way? Is this actually functional and achieving the desired outcomes? This is important for optimizing the future of healthcare, and provides tools to analyze problems systematically and troubleshoot clinical issues. The program really focuses on the future, developing leadership skills and expanding the pool of nursing knowledge for the future. This comes at the expense of strong fundamentals and clinical preparation, which can be frustrating for those who seek more bedside expertise. The condensed timeframe during the summer semesters feels insufficient to master the scope of information that is expected (i.e. all of pediatrics), and the program does not allow for any kind of more specialized experience (not a good choice for someone strongly interested in emergency medicine, critical care, pediatrics, maternity). Overall, if you enjoy systems thinking and problem solving beyond the bedside, this is a great program. It will give you the basic clinical skills you need to succeed as a bedside nurse as well, but the bulk of information necessary for patient care will likely be learned during the first year of employment rather than during nursing school.

149. Public Safety is always on the move at USF and they even offer a shuttle service for students to get home or back to campus safely at night.

I am a member of Pi Kappa Phi and I can say Greek Life on campus is the best at USF. I have made friends in all of the sororities and fraternities. We all support each other and it is like a family at USF.

There are countless clubs at USF and they all have great leaders. If you want to get involved or want to be a leader on campus, go to the involvement fair and sign up for a club on campus.

Great for students who want a good place to succeed all while looking for a liberal place to learn.

Go greek at USF. Greek life is the best decision I made in terms of social life and philanthropy.

I am paying A LOT of money to go hear but I think it is worth it considering the opportunities this University and the city provide.

It is SAN FRANCISCO! There is everything and anything you could want in this city. I am a DJ so I go around to all the clubs and embrace the music culture of SF. My friend is a marathon runner and is running a different marathon every month. The opportunities are endless.

It will do the job to feed you and keep you well-nourished but you will quickly get over the food.

The people in the dorms are great but you may find it hard to sleep some nights when the other people across the hall are being super noisy. However, you will make some great friends in the dorms so definitely don't take the camaraderie for granted.

My classes were challenging but not to the point where a good study plan didn't help. As long as you are on top of your academics and studying, you will/can pass your classes with high marks.

If you are the typical 3.8+GPA student who has great extracurricular activities then you are in. This University doesn't look for Stanford test scores but they want to see people who are high achievers that want to succeed.

The University of San Francisco is a great place to learn and explore San Francisco at the same time. This University is extremely costly to attend so look at your financial aid first. Also, the dorms are not the best but you only have to spend the first year there.

150. There are university police constantly patrolling the campus, and since it's not very big it seems like they are always around. They have emergency and non-emergency numbers to call and regardless of which one you call, someone will show up or help you in a matter of minutes.

There are a few sororities and fraternities on campus and from what I've seen they seem to be very close-knit and like family. They have lots of events that members can participate in and sometimes other people can attend as well.

There are a lot of campus activities that clubs organize or are put on by the school itself. There are also a good amount of sports teams, but no one seems to really get into the games and there really needs to be more school spirit.

Great for people who want to go to a small school but in a great location. The university is focused on learning but it is still a very laid-back feel on campus. Also good for people who like to explore. Golden Gate Park is just a few blocks away as well as Haight Ashbury, and the beach is only a few miles (a small bus ride from campus). Although the city is 7x7 square miles there is always something new and exciting to find.

In the Lone Mountain building there is a special book room that looks exactly like the Hogwarts library in Harry Potter.

EXPENSIVE. That would be the one word to describe it. Being a private university, they charge a lot more than other schools do, but they are pretty good at giving financial aid and have a lot of opportunities to help students pay for tuition.

Most of the fun activities happen off-campus, but being San Francisco there is always something for people to do.

On-campus dining is expensive. The meal plan is a little over $2000 a semester and some people still run out of money before the semester is over. They choices they have in the dining halls are good, but can get a little repetitive. However, the off-campus dining is amazing. Everything you can think of is within a few blocks, whether you want sushi, burgers, pizza, pho, or anything you crave, it's probably within walking distance of the campus.

The dorms are decent. There are some halls (mostly Hayes-Healy and Gillson) that get a bad reputation for being dirty and having more problems than others. They are definitely not large, but the school is also in a big city so there isn't room to build deluxe suites. They are a good fit for 2-3 people. The only downside is that there are communal showers which seems horrible at first, but once you get used to it and comfortable with sharing a bathroom with so many people it gets better.

While the school may not be the highest in regards to it's academics, the nursing program (which I am in) is top notch. The only allow a certain number of people into the program each year and the classes are mostly difficult. They definitely prepare you for entering the field of nursing with clinicals and hands-on classes, and I'm sure that no one in the program would describe it as easy.

If you call or email the Admissions office you can talk to the representative from the area where you live and they can give you tips on getting in. There are also a lot of events for prospective students and if it is possible you should definitely visit the campus.

Everyone is welcoming and makes you feel like you really belong here. The campus and it's people are here to make sure you get an amazing education and learn valuable life skills. Not to mention it's in central San Francisco so I really feel like I am going to the University of the Best City ever!

151. I feel so safe at campus. I have seen no incidents occur. They have the campus cops patrol at night and they check our dorms and make sure there is no foul play or anything. Also, a resource I know about but haven't used yet is if you are not too far from the school and you don't feel safe to walk home there is a number you can call at the school and an escort will pick you up and get you back to the school. It is 24-hours. They care about safety at the school. There are many numbers we can call to maintain our well-being and to stay safe.

The Greek Life is not large like it is at other schools, but it is still present on campus. I am not in a sorority, but one of my roommates is and she tells me all about it. They still had to do the rush week I think it's called and they still had to be accepted into the sorority/fraternity. They still have fees and activities. They just don't have housing. Although small at USF, it still gives you connections, the Greek Life label, and everything else any other school's Greek life can give you.

There are clubs and activies for all different cultures and all different personalities. There is poetry club, culture clubs, dancing clubs, spirit clubs, club and intramural clubs, gaming clubs, and much more.

USF is great for any student. There is something for everyone and for every type of student. The school is diverse, there are many clubs to represent different races and cultures and different personalities and interests. It is perfect for healthy people who eat right and love to exercise also I've noticed. But, I am not that person and the school is still great for me.

I am still in my first year at USF, so I do not know any unusual traditions or locations on campus yet. But, I can name the most talked about location, which is Lone Mountain. Ask any student at USF about Lone Mountain and they will know exactly what you are talking about. Lone Mountain is a part of campus across the street where some classes take place. It's probably four flights of stairs to the top of the campus, because it us up on a huge hill. The view from the top of the stairs at the campus is beautiful though and everyone always takes pictures from up there.

It is expensive to attend USF. For me, I spend zero dollars to go here because I am a Gates Millennium Scholar and got a few other scholarships. However, invest in your education. Invest in a school that is worth it. USF may be expensive, but tuition is the same for in-state and out-of-state students. And, you really get the most bang for your buck. You get to attend games free, we have a yearly concert that only costs us ten bucks. We have access to a high-quality gym, there are many activities, field trips in some classes, resources there for you, small classes, highly-qualified teachers, a clean and safe campus, and much more.

The campus usually has really cool events for students, but the campus life is not big like at other schools. Everyone goes off campus for parties and other events. It is San Francisco, there is always something to do for fun, just step out of your door: Movies in the park, shopping, the beach, sight-seeing, open mic, coffee houses, restaurants, Haight Ashbury (my favorite), Alcatraz prison, festivals every weekend, neighborhood concerts all the time, downtown events, and much more! Always free fun events too :)

We don't have a McDonald's or Panda Express or anything in our cafeteria like our schools. It's kind of sad, but I would get fat if we did so I guess it's good we don't. The school, like the city, is health-conscious. The cafeteria has a contract with this food company so they make our food and run the cafeteria. There are different booths for different appetites you may be having. An american food section, special section, mexican food section, italian food section, vegan section, salad section, a pastry/coffee section, a little market section, and a asian food section. We also have another cafeteria in the University Center called the undercafe, the floor under the cafeteria with a lounge and the bookstore and a market/grill which is open when the cafeteria closes for those late night study people or owls. They sell a lot of healthy stuff, but also a lot of other food so I guess you can say it's pretty balanced. But, besides cafeteria food to use your meal plan, it is really cool because you can use your meal plan for non-food the school market sells! That is how I get washing powder, dish liquid, toothpaste, shower gel, etc. Then, you can't forget about the amazing food off-campus all over San Francisco.

I think every freshman should live on campus their first year. The only thing I dislike about the dorms I was in, Gilson, is that they need to be renovated soon, and the community showers/bathrooms. Besides that, I love living on campus. I met most of my good friends in the dorms whether it was on the floor, in dorm activities that occurred, or in the elevator. Also, it gives you the chance to better connect with the school and the campus since you are already there. I have been able to go to office hours and activities more because I live on campus. I also have attended cool events the dorms do, like a Princess Diaries tour and a rap contest. Yes there will probably be some loud people on your floor, but they are respectable and the dorm has quiet hours after a certain time and 24-hour quiet time during finals. I love on-campus living.

My classes were very intriguing and I felt that I expanded my knowledge a lot in classes. All the assignments caused me to think and actually do work. In high school, I got by without studying or doing anything because I was that smart. Now, in college I study a lot, spend hours on homework, and am actually challenged like I should be. But, I would say the assignments are more time consuming than they are difficult. The only class where the assignments were a little scary was my ancient philosophy class of course but I even got B+s in that class.

The school, like the city is very hilly so be able to handle walking up-hill and downhill. Always take advantage of available resources if you ever need help or advice or tutoring there are many resources available for your needs. Like cooler weather because San Francisco is in the sixties year-round just about. Also, you do not have to be religious or be catholic like the school is. Religion is faintly present in classrooms and in the school in my opinion. There's a big school church, but besides that it feels like a normal school, so don't let the religious school label obstruct you from attending.

I actually applied to the University of San Francisco last minute. It was a choice that always lingered in my brain, but I never thought I would go that far from home. Without touring the school or talking to anyone from the school, I chose this school and I think it is the best decision I could have made.

152. What isn't there to do in San Francisco? There are plenty of places, like Golden Gate Park, to take a walk or go hiking. There are also fun little enclaves, such as Castro Street or Chinatown, that give you a taste of diversity. There are also great thrift shops on Haight and Ashbury for those that are into vintage items. Twin Peaks is a great place for a view of the city, and if you love shopping, then downtown is your place to go. There are also concerts from time to time in the city and when it's baseball season, make sure to go watch the SF Giants at the stadium!

Sometimes it gets pretty repetitive of what food is served in the cafeteria, but the food and drinks that are sold are always high quality and taste delicious! There is a lot to choose from and usually, there are different foods served each day at certain stations. Even when your tired of eating from the same 4 dining areas on campus, there are so many different places to eat in San Francisco that are easy to access, since we get a free bus pass with tuition! You can go out to the city with your friends and eat everything from Greek, to Chinese, to Indian food.

The people you dorm with (especially your floor mates) are always super friendly and a lot of us leave our doors open so that we can hang out with each other whenever we want and there is always an activity to do. Your floor mates are always down to go out and hang or even roam the city. It is really safe in the dorms and it is so easy to make friends with everyone.

It honestly depends on what professor you have and what type of classes you are taking, but generally, you have to put some effort to get a B, and a significant amount of effort to get an A. The academics in regards to workload is not that hard, but you get a lot out of the course if you actually try.

Because USF is located in one of the most busiest and diverse cities, it may be hard to focus on academics when there are so many things you want to do in the city. Like for any other school, time management is crucial for success. Also, just because there are less students, doesn't mean it will be easier to connect with professors and other students if you don't put yourself out there. The students and staff are super friendly, so don't be afraid to talk to them; especially at office hours. Just be safe and make sure you don't sign up for 8am classes (unless you are for sure a morning person).

When it comes to diversity, I would say USF is one of the most diverse campuses in both student body and teachers. There is so much support from the staff and everything is so personal and targeted to benefit students. Not only is USF a great community for learning and opportunities, the location is self is absolutely spectacular and there is never a dull moment.

153. Very safe campus with safety officers regularly walking the campus as well as required key card access past a certain time in the evenings and early mornings.

There are a fair amount of clubs which include, glitter group, poetry clubs, intercultural clubs, debate team, intramural sports as well as club sports, and many more that are listed on the University's website.

International LGBTQ Those seeking to change the world Those who are determined to become well-rounded and learn to advocate for others and adequately and efficiently express themselves Those interested in perusing degrees in business and economics

You have access to a fantastic career center with internship opportunities A full service gym Rigorous academics Professor availability to help on assignments Extensive library system in connection with libraries across the west to obtain any book that you would need including automatic database access

Most campus events are either sports, social justice or theatrical. There are also events such as Stress less day where they have massages, food and puppies to play with that come for mid-terms and finals, they also have many career fairs and opportunities to interview with large companies. In the city, the options are limitless. Whatever you want to do for fun you can be sure to find it in San Francisco with its 49 miles of packed potential with every kind of event possible within it.

There are multiple cafeterias on campus. One on the upper campus and another one the lower campus and yet another in near the law school. The food is catered by Bon Appetite and is, lets say, normal food. There are more healthy option here at USF than there are at many other schools, but the variety of food differs day to day. Typically there are two salad bars, a pasta/pizza section, regular cafeteria food, sandwich corner, breakfast stop, fish section, a stop and go store style inlet, and a rotating option section.

The first year dorms are typical dorms with triples and doubles available with carpet flooring, pine wood bunk beds, desks, chairs and decent closet space. Co-ed dorms are available and separated by floor or co-ed floors are available in a mixed year dorm. There is also an all girls dorm. Dorms require key card access and it is necessary to hold up and show the desk assistant your card indicating that you live in that particular building. Guests must be checked in and out when visiting and cannot stay over night longer than three consecutive nights in a month. Dorms also have ping pong and pool tables, kitchen access and formal and quiet lounges available in specific dorms.

Class sizes are small with under 40 students in a typical four credit class. The teachers know your names and require effort to be put into the course and assignments. Depth of knowledge is taught rather than memorization with written exams over multiple choice quizzes. While this is a more difficult way of test taking, it allows for more opportunities to think critically and creatively about the subject matter.

When applying to the university be sure to look into a living learning community as this will be a chance to dive deeper into San Francisco and discover the people who live here and what types of roles you can take on within the progressive society of San Francisco as you come into the city for your first year of university. Be sure to apply for grants and scholarships and take advantage of the full listing of outside scholarships obtained by USF students in the past that the University of San Francisco has on their financial aid web page. Remember to choose your school based on your interests and to check out opportunities off campus in the city in addition to those offered on campus.

Well-rounded education with a focus on obtaining a degree to change the world. A very open and accepting community that creates awareness of all beliefs and cultures. The academics are about depth of knowledge and ability to use what you have learned to help others in society and yourself.

154. I'd like to say it's mostly safe on campus. But I have friends who have found their belongings stolen and some people have been robbed on the streets outside of campus (the same block as the school buildings) at odd hours very early in the morning or in the dark. I mostly feel safe here walking around campus.

Greek life isn't like most traditional colleges that have a Greek Row or special housing. Some people are very involved in their social frats/sororities and you can see people on campus wearing shirts or other merchandise showing off Greek letters. I've been only in an academic fraternity, and they're different from social fraternities/sororities so I don't have much more to say.

Getting involved in on campus activities is completely up to you. There's no pressure and if you choose to join a club or whatever, you'll likely find someone who shares similar interests. Some students are passionate about their involvements, so you might get drawn to that type of dedication. Some students couldn't care less. Either way, you can find something or start something if you don't already see it here.

This school is great for independent students who want to do their own thing. There isn't much pressure to conform to anything, at least in my experience. I have friends from a bunch of different backgrounds, and if you choose, you can find friends to fit in with if you're particularly concerned about it. There's something for just about every kind of student.

Lone Mountain has possibly the most gorgeous view of any school I've seen, because from the top you have a panoramic view of the Pacific Ocean, the north bay, east bay, and the Twin Peaks. It's beautiful at night and during the day, so make sure you check out the view from Lomo. The view of Lomo is almost just as breathtaking, too!

Tuition at this school is high, so be prepared to spend some money or if you're lucky, hopefully you get a good scholarship. I've never heard of a student here who has had a full scholarship, unless you have an outside scholarship in addition to the merit scholarships at USF. Also, the cost of living in San Francisco is high, and this applies to the Bay Area as well. Needless to say, this school is better for you if you have money to pay for all this stuff.

Go out and explore the city and other places around the bay. It's great that we have so much to see here. You'll just need to be able to pay for transportation and you'll be on your way to lots of sightseeing, good food, and a relaxing time. I promise you you'll find something great to do in the Bay Area.

There's so much available if you want to eat out but if you're on campus, your options are limited. Many of the food choices on campus are overpriced, but I would say they're around the same cost as your everyday restaurant. If you live on campus and are required to have the meal plan, you will be paying more than you should.

Hopefully you'll get good neighbors and be a good one yourself, if you get into a dorm. It's harder these days because the student population is expanding beyond the size and number of dorms available, so this year there have been a lot of triple rooms for freshmen. You're better off living in an apartment in that case, if you can get one.

Academics are great. If you want to challenge yourself, you're going to have to do it independently because with all the freedom in college, you can easily slack and fall behind. Professors are great and they're mostly helpful with anything you need. Some of my friends haven't had the same luck and struggled. But then again, if you do have a bad professor, it'll last just one semester.

Go to table events on campus where you can chat with people who know more about on- and off-campus activities, internships, and jobs. You can't go wrong when you're curious enough to try to see what's out there. This goes for dorm life, academic success, exploring San Francisco, and everything in between.

I'm glad I chose this school because I never visited the campus but I just had a feeling that I would enjoy it. I was right. Now I'm doing really well, met a lot of people, and I can't complain about much, except that maybe tuition should be less but then again we are a private university in an expensive city...

155. University of San Francisco makes sure that Greek Life allows for students to be able to become excellent in academics, service, leadership, and social advancement

Explore San Francisco by going to: Fisherman's Wharf, Golden Gate Bridge, Chinatown, Union Square, Coit Tower, Twin Peaks

Do not ever lose your One Card identification card! Remember to bring laundry room necessities to keep your clothes and bedsheets clean and fresh! Attend your professors' office hours!

University of San Francisco is very honorable of their tagline, Change the World from Here, where Here represents San Francisco and the students' minds and hearts. Life in this university is not only restricted in its campus but also extends outwards into the city that holds the world-renowned Golden Gate Bridge. Students from around the globe attend the University of San Francisco, so newfound culture is endless!

156. The campus itself is really safe, but there are definitely a handful of thefts and phone robberies happening around the campus. Keep your phones in your pockets and earbuds out! Be alert and watch out for suspicious persons. Otherwise, no assaults or other violent activities.

None!

You literally get to live in one of the greatest cities for your college years. You have Ocean Beach, Golden Gate Park, Downtown, Bars, Academy of Science, China Town, the Mission, Cafes. You'll definitely be kept busy for all 4 years!

Majority of the students do not find the food very appealing, but it is definitely edible, but pricey. The sandwich booth is great and the soup section. They opened up a crepe booth recently, but it seems to change. I love the breakfast toast your own bagel section with an assortment of cream cheese section.

Didn't live in the dorms, but Loyola Village, which is an apartment arrangement with kitchen for 20 and over students. Really enjoyed the setup and the location, which is a 7 minute walk from Trader Joes. It has a 24 hour run lobby, which provides access and security.

I don't know what the other majors are like, but I can say that the nursing academics are fairly rigorous, but for a good reason.

Make sure you know what you're getting yourself into by going to a small private Jesuit school! I love being close with my classmates and teachers, so going to a small school is ideal for me. I do more of my outgoing stuff in the city and outside of school. Get ready for the city life!

This University is taught by some of the most caring, enthusiastic, and intelligent professors I have ever known. Love that the classes are around 20-30 students, ensuring that each student gets the attention and classroom learning experience needed. The campus is beautiful with all of its new construction and newly planted trees and flowers!

157. As stated, the program is in a remote place of the Presidio. A lot of tourists and locals using the rock climbing facility next to the program location. If you're dismissed at nighttime, there are no street lights and parking can be far. The US Park Police patrol the area but their are too few to be effective since there are repeated car break-ins and vandalism occurring.

None.

If you're rich or don't worry about money and want a title of Doctor by paying for it rather than earning it, then this place is for you.

All the program practicum sites and speakers are friends of the program that are either retired or out of touch with current trends in psychology. There is a tradition of public service so volunteering is a must. Doing a practicum every year throughout your matriculation is mandatory including over holiday breaks and summertime. Odd and irregular since none of the public schools require this but are APA accredited.

If you're unable to get into a funded, public program (Univeristy or State School), it's over a $1,000 a credit hour. Total program tuition is near 140 credit hours and it will increase over time, so each year tuition is an estimate. You can do the math. There are a few loan repayment programs but since it is not APA accredited, those programs are too few and their application process should be reviewed before making a commitment here.

Not much to do other than view the local Marina District or local businesses near the program location.

Non-existent again for this program. Since it's located in the Presidio, nothing is around. You will need a car to drive far into the Marina District to find affordable and quick food that isn't restaurant-style table service.

Non-existent. Have to be rich or have your parents pay for a far too expensive place in SF to live here. Otherwise, get acquainted with BART, MUNI or the FasTrak to get around from more inexpensive places but gentrification rules here. This is a commuter program.

Most classes are conducted through media interaction and handouts, i.e. video and powerpoint and photocopies. The professors are nearly all private practitioners and or have largely graduated from other private diploma mills. This, unfortunately, is the dominant factor with persuading potential students to stay away from this place. The books and the content of them are outdated. The professors have an old and outdated viewpoint. They aren't proficient enough to be professors and merely do this to add to their inadequate income of private practice. There is hardly any written assignments. A lot of presentations are required of the student for their grade. And if your unfamiliar with APA guidelines to accreditation and academics, many features of their curriculum will make you unable to pass the EPPP and make you look foolish in the professional world.

USF does have a religious atmosphere and viewpoint. It is a private school and the professors and administrators can simply make up the rules -- this does occur. The student handbook is mishmash of other professional psychology program handbooks and it does not favor the student at all. Nearly all the students come from money of some sort. Predominantly a white and female heavy program and, of course, the San Francisco lifestyle is favored. If you like beer and wine in the program refrigerator, commuting in hellish traffic for hours to go to the most secluded place in SF, going to class 1-2 days a week all day long, having nothing around in the means of food or coffee, and parking lots that are known for vandalism and car break-ins...this place is for you.

DO NOT GO HERE...unless you have money and hard up for a graduate degree. The PsyD program is a money mill that solicits to the student that wishes to negotiate, bargain, and perform the bare minimum for their highly paid degree.

158. Very safe.

Theater! Choir! Community service around San Francisco. Sports!

Outgoing, creative, students who want to get involved with more than just their studies..

Basketball games! Get involved in theater! Campus radio station! Community service!

Worth every penny. Many scholarship opportunities. Get involved in campus activities... Don't just hang in the library... Experience campus life!

Concerts in Golden Gate Park, football, baseball, basketball, art museums, and a wonderful city by the bay to explore.

Good food and several dining locations. I'm never without food. And there are lots of student oriented restaurants in the nearby neighborhoods.

I have lived on the dorm for 3 years. It's a great social environment and I have made friends I will stay in touch with forever!

Yes, you will have to do some serious school work here. But it's fun! And the professors are there to help!

Go to this college. It's a great education and a great place to meet friends. The San Francisco area is rich with culture, sports, and community involvement. Come see our campus and take the tour! .

USF has wonderful professors and small classes. There are no TAs here... You get to deal directly with the professor for a more in depth learning experience. There is always something to do and get involved in on campus.... fun extracurricular and a myriad of community involvement.

159. San Francisco is such a beautiful city with so much going on. It's not that big of a city, so don't worry about getting lost; but every little corner has a new hip coffee shop, historical mural, community garden or dorky store. The night life is pretty incredible as well, there is something fun going on every night of the week - and the best part is, most of it is reasonably cheap.

Cafeterias are cafeterias. But I do have to say that USF's cafeteria is a lot better than many other colleges I visited. They have a good diversity and try to keep things organic and healthy which I love.

I loved living in the dorms my freshman year! I applied to a living-learning community before arriving at USF, and it enhanced my experience by far. In this community we were a group of 13 students and had 2 classes together both semester, focused on service-learning and fulfilling a lot of core requirements. What was wonderful about the experience is that we all lived together and became very close to one another, making the college transition a lot smoother.

I've enjoyed all my classes so far because I feel they are well balanced between challenging me and giving me new perspectives, as well as giving me freedom to explore my own ideas. The professors are also very helpful, they all have weekly office hours and are very friendly (and sometimes they have snacks!).

Get involved! USF provides so many opportunities for new and current students to get to know the campus, from retreats, living-learning communities, clubs, greek life to weekend outdoor adventures.

USF is a very diverse community, I have classmates and friends from all over the world and the states. Because of it's diverse community it is very easy for new students to find their niche,and relate to a lot of people. USF is still a small school, which I love because it provides me with the opportunities to know my professors personally and gives me hands-on activities out of the classroom.

160. There are many different places you could go to here in the city to have fun on the cheap. There are many cheap, delicious restaurants up and down Geary Street, many different theaters to go to for matinee showings, and my personal favorite, 15 dollar tickets for the San Francisco Symphony.

San Francisco is full of stuff for students to do, see, and experience. There are plenty of great restaurants, theaters, and malls to go to. The SF BART system also allows for adventures to different places as well, such as Bay Street in Emeryville, NFL and MLB games in Oakland, and shopping centers in Dublin.

The food offered at this school is abundant and are organic and mostly healthy. Vegan, vegetarian, and kosher meals are also offered.

Each class will take a lot out of a person. There are plenty of requirements that must be completed on a student's downtime as well as in class.

Always take copious amounts of notes, preferably on a laptop for quick note-taking. Always be jovial to other students: a personal life and social connections are needed in a big city such as this.

USF is an amazingly diverse school. Not only that, but most of the professors also want to see their students succeed. To do this, they give them the most amount of info needed possible for them to succeed.

161. The head of security at USF used to work for the San Francisco police force. There is security around 24/7 and there are apps and phone numbers students can use/ call so that they will be escorted by a security guard whenever they don't feel safe.

There is Greek Life at USF, but Greek houses do not exist. Most sororities and fraternities either center around service work or preparing students for future careers.

USF doesn't have much sports. If you are accustomed to being on a sports team from high school you will have to compromise to being in a sports club, since there is a limited amount of sports teams. There are many clubs at USF and I recommend for students to at least try any club that sounds interesting to them even by the smallest degree. I personally met a lot of people through clubs and they have benefited me in different ways from spiritual pursuits to academic and career orientated interests.

USF is great for a variety of students, especially those who love the city of San Francisco itself. USF is a great place for students who are very artsy and explorative to students who want to live in a city with a great night life to students who are ready to embrace as many opportunities as they can to equip them for their future career.

There isn't much campus life at USF, however you will never find yourself bored with so much to do around the city. Many students spend their free time exploring Golden Gate Park, Haight & Ashbury beaches around San Francisco, Japan Town, the Castro District, and many other cool places. With USF's small community you will easily find a group of people to explore these places with.

I have been told that USF has better food compared to other universities, but since I haven't lived on any other campus to compare it I would simply describe the cafeteria food as simply 'okay'. USF provides food from Bon Appetite who are known for ethically preparing their food, however pickier students tend to get tired of the food quickly and find it overpriced. If you don't like the food in the cafeteria, there's a grocery store nearby USF and a variety of great restaurants within the city.

There are some stereotypes that label certain Freshman dorms, while other dorm buildings are more renovated than the others. For the most part students are friendly, freshman dorms, are very close to academic buildings, and the USF security is always around to ensure students feel safe.

You will get in what you put into a class just like at any other academic institution. While being at USF I felt like I was being academically challenged in my classes without it ever getting too overwhelming. I noticed that professors learn students' names fairly quickly here and having those small class setting make approaching teachers easier.

I had a different idea of the University of San Francisco from taking tours around the campus before actually attending the school. I recommend talking to current or students at USF to get a more realistic idea of student life at USF.

At the University of San Francisco I am constantly ensured that I am getting a serious education, while being taught by passionate professors. Students at USF adapt to their San Franciscan surroundings with friendly and mellow personalities. It is definitely easy to meet a lot of people at USF with its smaller class sizes and diverse array of students when you are willing to put the best foot forward.

162. Everything! There are an endless amount of school sponsored activities that take place both on and off campus for you to attend. In addition to these activities that school has a wide array of clubs, organizations, and sports for you to get involved in. The on campus gym is fantastic and features everything from an olympic pool to regularly scheduled exercises classes. The public transportation in San Francisco is superb and it is quite easy to visit other areas of the city. You can literally spend a semester exploring all that one of San Francisco's districts has to offer. Overall the city is overflowing with activities to do and features something for everyone.

The food on campus is quite diverse and surprisingly tasty for a college campus. That being said there really are no financial incentives to eat on campus as a majority of the food options are quite pricey (changes are in the works though). Either way you will find yourself eating on campus at one of the two main cafeteria areas and you will be happy that you have access to such an eclectic menu that actually tastes pretty good. Since USF is located in the middle of San Francisco (or just about) there are an innumerable amount of local restaurants that you can check out, some of which have the best food in the world!

The are a number of dorms available to students with a majority of them being on campus. There are also some dorms located off campus (but still close to campus) if you prefer to live away from the school and eat at local restaurants. Finally they do have special apartment style dorms for students who are junior standing or above the age of 21. Although the cost of dorm life and an accompanying meal plan can be on the expensive side, they are well worth it as they allow you to focus your time on other aspects of your life such as academics and your social life. The RA's are not overly strict in my experience though this is more a matter of who the current RA is at the time.

This school is no joke in regards to its academic rigor. Although you will find that many of the general education courses are not overwhelming as the teachers try to ease you into the college process, by the time you hit your major courses you need to be prepared to buckle down if you want to earn higher grades. A majority of the professors are either PhDs or have some level of post graduate education along with a wealth of real world experience in their fields. Since they have achieved so much and know it is possible they hold you to a very high standard as a student. Overall I would say that the school is challenging but it is not overwhelming, it really comes down to a matter of how much effort you are willing to put in.

I recommend visiting the beautiful campus to see it for yourself and taking one of the student led tours (if you can ask for Meghan). The school does feature some majors more than others so ensure that they offer the subject you wish to major in. If you wish to know more the lone mountain campus has a variety of resources you can use to find out more about the school. If you would like a more personal or in depth analysis of certain aspects of the school I encourage you to stop a student and ask them if you can conduct a mini interview. I anticipate that they would be happy to answer any and all questions that they are able to.

This is one of the greatest schools that you can ever hope to attend in regard to its faculty, location, education, and demographics. The school offers a diverse amount of programs sure to fit the need of all their students, which draws a very diverse and unique student body. The school also provides numerous on and off campus activities and clubs that one can engage in so that they will never be bored, unless they want to.

163. The campus itself is very safe and usually has public safety officers on duty during most of the day. Despite being a safe campus, I would stay cautious whenever being off campus. Even in surrounding streets, there have been instances of robberies, some at gunpoint. As there are many benefits to attending a university set in an overpopulated city, you should always be cautious of your surroundings. However, if you are feeling unsafe, public safety does offer a shuttle within proximities to take you to your destined location.

There is a large abundance of clubs that will satisfy the interest of any student. The Involvement Fair held at the beginning of Fall Semester is the easiest way to learn about the clubs available. There are cultural clubs, social clubs for people with similar interests, and even clubs for people of the same major. Most of these clubs hold on-campus events, such as Diwali Night held by Indian Student Organization. In addition to club events, there are events held by the Campus Activities Board. They are in charge of the concert every spring semester, Late Night at Crossroads â?? an event that occurs every first and third Thursday of the month and allows students to showcase their talents. In addition to these events, USF does have sporting events for the soccer, baseball, and basketball games. Cost of admittance is free and in many occasions, attendants receive free gifts and prizes during the games.

USF would be a great match for students who are looking for a small university for their studies. When attending a smaller university, there are higher chances of signing up for classes you want and/or need for the semester. Also in a smaller university, you are able to recognize familiar faces; you will most likely run into the people to meet in or outside of class again. University of San Francisco is also a great option for prospective students who are looking to be inundated in culture and livelihood that only San Francisco can offer. In a city that celebrates uniqueness, San Francisco is an amazing location to discover who you are as a young adult.

At USF, there is a reading room in Lone Mountain that resembles the library in the Harry Potter movies. Most people have heard of this room, therefore it is often busy with people studying, especially during finals. However, if you have time in between classes or would like to start homework/studying for a test early, then you may be able to grab a table â?? although I would highly suggest against study groups in this location. There is also the Parina Lounge on the UC 3rd floor furnished with comfortable chairs and couches. In addition, there are personal glass conference rooms that have large whiteboards and a television that can link up with a computer through HDMI cables. This location is also popular and can be difficult to find an empty conference room, however, the general space is usually vacant and a great location to meet with study groups or be by yourself.

Although tuition is high at University of San Francisco, there are many benefits to attending a private institution. At University of San Francisco, you are assured attention from your professors and academic advisors. At the end of every semester, students must meet with academic advisors in order to plan what classes to take the next semester. These advising appointments are intended to keep track of your progress so far and the classes you need in order to fulfill graduation requirements. Also, considering the city that you will be in the next four years, I would consider USF to be worth the buck. There is no other time to celebrate youth than during your college years â?? what other city would give you the same big city feel but only within 7x7 miles.

One of the best things about USF is that it is conveniently located in the center of San Francisco. Haight-Asbury is a walking distance from campus. In this neighborhood, you can walk around boutiques and eat at restaurants that exist there. Also in walking distance, is Clement St. This street is infamous for the inexpensive Asian cuisine and markets. If you desire to explore more of San Francisco, there are Muni busses that basically will take you around the entire city, depending on the route. Conveniently, you are given a Muni pass, which will allow you to ride the bus for free. In addition to exploring different neighborhoods, I highly suggest using freecheapsf.com for events that are happening through SF and the Bay Area. This website lists different events occurring throughout the week, such as special admission days of certain museums and free concerts that are held in Golden Gate Park.

In the main cafeteria, there are various sections that have different dishes. There are some sections that remain consistent with the dishes - such as the pasta section or The Grill -whereas there are other sections â?? like the Global section or Classics- that change dishes daily. Unlike many universities, the cafeteria does not function on a meal points system but rather Flexi Dollars. Flexi is money incorporated into your tuition that can only be used to buy food on campus and is mandatory for all on-campus students. In addition to the main cafeteria, there is a Crossroads Grill/Market and Peetâ??s Coffee counter that is open until midnight. Lastly, there is a small grocery section in Lone Mountain where frozen foods, and other pantry foods are sold. The company that provides all of the food on campus, Bon Appetite, has undergone lots of criticism from students. Many students believe that everything served is highly overpriced and the quality of the food is not satisfactory. Some students even claim Bon Appetite to be a monopoly and corrupted business. Although meals may be overpriced, the cafeteria does provide different options for their students every day.

A large part of the college experience is the residence hall you are placed in your first year. At USF, there are four dormitories on the main campus â?? Fromm, Phelan, Gillson and Hayes-Healy. Fromm is the all-female residence hall placed adjacently to the library. If location is a determining factor, Fromm is closest to Koret Gym and farthest from the cafeteria. Although I have never lived there personally, past residents have told me that the hall is usually quiet, which can have a positive or negative impact on you dorm experience. Then, there is Phelan Hall, the newly renovated residence hall on campus. Due to this fact, Phelan is the most competitive residence hall to be placed in. On every floor, there is a general lounge furnished with couches, one television, and study table. Phelan also has the nicest bathrooms in comparison to other residence halls on campus. Phelan is also a co-ed dormitory, where males and females live on the same floor together. Next, we have Gillson and Hayes-Healy Hall. Both are located at the bottom on â??Cardiac Hillâ??, a relatively steep hill that separates these residence halls from the main classes. Both Hayes-Healy and Gillson are co-ed dormitories, however, the floors alternate and consists of only one gender. For example, the first floor could be all females and the above would be all males. Both these dorms are in livable conditions, however there are some parts of each building that are run down and are planned to go under renovation.

Like any university, there will be difficult and easy courses depending on how determined the student is to earn a good grade. There are professors that grade incredibly difficult and hold high expectations for their students â?? in which I would suggest attending office hours for extra tutoring or making an appointment with the Learning Center, which also provides peer tutoring. The great thing about USF is the class sizes, in which there will be approximately 30 students to 1 professor (unless you are in a lecture hall where there might be up to 75 students). The intimate class size allows professors to know their students and most will make the time to meet with their students if the student reaches out first. I have never encountered a professor that will not meet with their students if asked â?? there have been occurrences where appointments have been rescheduled, but never cancelled.

The first tip I would provide for prospective students is to visit the campus and come with questions when you visit. Although there are plenty of photos and reviews of the university online, a personal visit will allow better idea of the student life, class sizes, and the general vibe of the university. Also, come with questions about the campus â?? you could ask your tour guide for their opinion on certain topics that concern or interest you, such as dorm life or why they personally chose to attend USF.

A relatively small university immersed in the center of a large city fit into 7x7 miles. Despite only being 49 sq. miles, San Francisco has a lot to offer as a city, including infamous landmarks, such as Haight-Ashbury and the Golden Gate Bridge. However, USF will not give you the typical college experience that you would expect; there is no football team and little emphasis on Greek life.

164. Coming from a little town in New England, San Francisco has a lot more to offer in activities than any other place I know. There's literally always something to do for every type of person. You can go clubbing, to comedy clubs, eat at amazing restaurants and cafes, go to the beach, hiking, and lots of shopping.

For the price you pay at this school, it leaves a lot to be desired about the quality of the food, and service. The cafe staff are pretty slow at serving you over priced under cooked meals.

I have a gorgeous view of the bay, and Golden Gate Bridge. My dorm-mates are respectable, fun, and courteous. The resident directors are always there if you need help, and look out for your best intentions.

This school will definitely challenge your current values and ideas. With a lot of homework. But the teachers here are motivated to help you succeed.

A wonderful school that encourages the students to change the world from here. This school has a beautiful campus that overlooks the city of San Francisco. The teachers and staff here truly care about your well-being, and career interests.

165. Network, and stay on top of important dates.

As an adult learner, I am truly impressed with the curriculum. Not only that, but the staff is supportive, and super friendly.

166. It's actually pretty impressive. Everyone wants students to be safe. Students can get walked over to their dorms or picked up from somewhere else if it's late at night.

You always have something to do. Whether it be in the city or with friends, you can never be bored in a city like San Francisco.

At first, the food is amazing because it's stuff most people don't eat on a daily basis. Then it feels repetitive. Even then, for college food, it's pretty tasty.

I feel I got lucky. All the girls on my side of the floor are really nice. Everyone wants to make friends; nobody's mean.

Anyone who says none of their classes are hard is lying. It's college-you can tell the difference between this and high school by the amount of work.It's the way it's supposed to be.

Look at what interests you. The school has a wide range of majors and minors, and probably has something for everyone.

The school not only has an amazing view, but great professors to boot! The class sizes are small, which means that my professors can get to know students on a name-to-name basis.Everyone's amazing and so nice!

167. During the day, we have a public safety shuttle available to transport disabled students to and from their destinations within a 6-block radius of our school. At 6pm, this shuttle is available to all USF students and may be accessed via cell. This shuttle is perfect for getting around campus or getting home at late hours of the night.

USF is known for its outstanding Nursing and Architecture programs, however, I have discovered that there are many tools and programs available for students interested in arts.

Our schools has a fairly large number of students from Hawaii. Every year the Hawaii Club hosts their annual lu'au, a tradition that has been with the university for many decades now.

Our school's gym has monthly opportunities for off-campus outdoor activities. My favorite is the weekend trips to Tahoe in the spring for snowboarding.

Many dining options (salad bar, sandwiches, burritos, asian cuisine, pizza, grab 'n go, smoothies, Peet's coffee, late night market, deli, vegan friendly dishes, etc.)

I've never lived in the typical campus dorms. Here, we have what are called apartment style dorms. So I spent a full academic year living with three other girls in a two bedroom apartment with two baths, full kitchen and living room. The pictures they used online to advertized these apartments unfortunately looked better than the apartments themselves. Also, they don't creatively disguise the fact that when you apply for single or double occupancy, they mean within that one bedroom of the apartment, not the entire place itself. So, I went in expecting to be sharing the apartment with another girl, each with our own bedroom, but turned out we had a total of four girls in our two-bedroom apartment. But, it was worth it to have our own kitchen and private bathrooms.

Diversity is an understatement, here. Be prepared broaden your mental horizons and gain unimaginable insights.

USF encourages you to share and explore opinions. Unlike many colleges, the student population and campus size is small enough to where you don't feel like one tiny fish a sea of unfamiliar faces.

168. No matter where you go there is a call button if you do not feel safe to walk home alone where security will come escort you home. There is never a time you should feel unsafe at USF!

There are trips that you can go on if you sign up in the Koret Recreational Center that are cheap for us students, that are on a budget. There are free concerts in the park, which isn't too far from campus, and of course there is stuff to do on campus to support the many sports teams.

There are an abundance of places to eat at. If you don't want to eat something on campus, there are many places to go that aren't that far to get a snack or even a full on meal.

As long as you apply early, you will pretty much get your top choice with a pretty interesting and exciting roommate.

Academics is not that hard to stay on top of. The classes are small, so you have more one on one time with the professors.

Be prepared to walk because the campus is pretty big, so you will get a lot of exercise!

The campus is in the center of the city and not too far from anywhere you want to go. The people there have so much energy and are very respectful. There is no other place I would rather be in the world than at USF.

169. All private schools are very expensive, but if you are seeking a more personal education, then a school like USF is right for you.

Not only does San Francisco have tons of things to do, but the entire Bay Area does as well! Public transportation from city to city is great, and so many places are accessible. San Francisco has a great music scene, but if the urban environment gets tiring, you could always take a trip to San Jose, Santa Cruz, or Berkeley.

Visit the campus before committing to any school! All schools may look and seem great according to their website, but in order to see if one could truly be happy at a certain school, it is vital to visit the campus at least once.

The University of San Francisco is in a wonderful location. Students will not only receive a great education, but they will also be exposed to real life in a very diverse city. Also, being a smaller private school gives students more one on one time with staff, creating a more personal educational experience.

170. Whether you're religious or not, check out the Church on campus. It is absolutely breathtaking.

USF is very expensive to go to and San Francisco is a very expensive place to live. However, they give out scholarships to just about everyone every year!

There are hundreds of events on campus throughout the semester, such as athletic events, dance performances, concerts, socials. San Francisco has so endless fun (and free!) things to do. Utilize that USF bus pass to explore the amazingness of San Francisco.

There are so many options! Mexican, Italian, American, Asian, Vegetarian, you name it! They have it.

I've never lived in the dorms, but from what I know, they are hard to get into!

Academic rigor is very subjective, however, the library and local 24hr coffee shops are filled with USF students working hard no matter what time of day it is!

There are many opportunities to join honor societies, research groups, and so on. If you can, pick up as many of these opportunities as possible then do it! It looks great for Grad School and jobs! Also, utilize the professors, your advisors tutors, student advisors, ect. They're great and they will do everything they can to help you!

First off, the campus is absolutely beautiful and in a great location that is walking distance to various San Francisco attractions. Also, the professors are absolutely amazing and will go way above and beyond to help their students succeed. However, the Admissions and Records faculty, which are supposed to help with major questions about Financial Aid, Student Loans, Adding/Dropping classes, ect. seem to be misinformed and give out faulty advice.

171. Don't carry your iphone out in open view when straying off campus

It's growing. Made my experience at USF 1000x better. Become part of a family, USF is not like a stereotypical greek run school.

Greek life is growing, student leadership, club sports

students who are outgoing, intelligent, independent thinkers. Probably better for the liberal less traditional types, you are in San Francisco after all.

Lone Mountain has a spectacular view.

Go out in the city San Francisco

It is important to be a well-rounded student, not just grades.

Beautiful campus in a very fun city. It is important to get involved on campus. Most of the professors really care.

172. USF is a safe place. It rests right between the two most secure neighborhoods in San Francisco, has a 24 hour security task force called Public Safety, there is someone on duty all day, every day, and their response if quick. Public Safety Patrols the halls of every dorm at least twice a day and they will not hesitate to stop someone suspicious. In general, there is nothing to be afraid of when attending USF. Public Safety is a call away and everyone at USF is safety conscious

Not much of a Greek life at USF. There are about five societies that I know of that range from business to leadership in the community but they have no houses or special areas. Therefore, USF Greek life is not the strongest.

There are many clubs here at USF. From the African American Student Union to the Queer Alliance, you will find your niche here at USF. And if not, you can always make your own club. In addition, activities at USF are always on. Baking cookies for charity, taking a retreat, hiking, going on a tour of Alcatraz, and concerts are just the start of the fun here at USF. Seriously, there is hardly a week something is not going on.

It's great for students who want to be challenged, exposed to many different people, and who want to have an odd mix of hard schooling with hard fun. You will meet gay people, Chinese people, people from England, people from all over the world basically. And you will get a world class education in a world class city. So, if you don't mind getting your hands dirty, you will love USF. It's great for student's who just can't get enough of school and just love to get wild when homework is done.

USF, being Jesuit, has a giant church that happens to be the largest on the West Coast. It is absolutely gorgeous. You would have to see it to get the immensity of it. And to add, the only people that are allowed to marry in that church are students who graduated from the university and faculty. USF also has its secondary campus called Lone Mountain. Lone Mountain used to serve the main campus back when USF was a woman only school. It also happens to be the second oldest university building in California. Oh, and it is not called Lone Mountain for just any reason. It sits on the highest point in San Francisco, hence it's name, which also makes it the safest place to be during an earthquake or flood. That is just a bonus.

Simply put: USF is expensive school. The reason why it is so expensive is because they only hire the best professors, have a great location, have up to date and advanced facilities, and is, in general, a great school. So, you get for what you pay for. You pay for a free bus pass, a brand new gym which is free to students, awesome classes, and awesome staff that care about your future. Every penny is spent well.

What isn't there to do? You can go shopping at thrift stores about five minutes away on the Haight and Ashbury Strip, go for a sunny day stroll in Golden Gate park, go dining at one of San Francisco's many first tier restaurants, or go exploring Downtown San Francisco. The city has free concerts, community events, LGBT Pride Events, biking, marathons, shopping centers, clubs, and other things to do. Food here is spectacular. You can grab a bowl of authentic Vietnamese Pho or eat an awesome inexpensive burger that will give you a food coma. San Francisco is a place for artists, activists, foodies, students, diversity, learning, and change.

USF offers students a decent cafeteria with many options. On the average day, you can have waffles for breakfast, pizza for lunch, and Kung Pow chicken for dinner. USF has the main cafeteria in the University Center (which is at the center of the university; you guessed it!), one under the main Caf typically called the Under Caf and one smaller one on the secondary campus. The main Caf has the best options for students as it is the largest. Sometimes, however, students find that they school provided meals could be improved and that it way too expensive. USF gives each student $2000 worth of pure food money and sometimes, students find themselves running out of it a month before the semester ends. Each meal averages to about $10. Simple math will tell us that that is not enough for a semester. However, with budgeting and careful spending, the USF meal plan money should last you through the semester. Sometimes, it is to be noted that the cafeteria sometimes seems to close too early. But, with planning, that should not be an issue for those of you who are savvy at staying fed. Rating: Three out of five. While the food is expensive and the Cafeteria may have odd hours, the food is decently good, convenient, and well portioned. All in all: Spend smart, stay fed.

Aw, the dorms at the University of San Francisco. They have their great qualities and their areas of improvement. Let us start with the good, shall we? Dorms at USF are fun, interesting, and full of great people with interesting and diverse backgrounds. You can share a room with someone from Norway or with someone from rural Montana. Dorms are safe, secure, and have a very helpful front desk. There are full sized kitchens, pianos, pool tables, board games, video game systems, and other cool things to do while living at the dorms. However, the dorm room itself varies. Most of the dorms are USF are about the size of your average bedroom and they are generously furnished with closets, desks, and beds. All in all, they are comfortable and enjoyable. Now for the not so pretty side. Sometimes the dorms can be a little rowdy especially on weekends. No one ever said college was not going to be fun but at times, the dorms at USF can use a chill pill. In addition, two out of the three freshman dorms are not updated. The one that is updated has brand new bathrooms, dorm rooms, and brand new lounge areas. But the other two dorms have not. Lastly, USF is a very small school. Do not go here if you expect to have privacy in the fullest degree. People know people through people. And you will learn how to choose your friends quickly and keep certain things to yourself lest you want to become subject to rumor. All in all, USF dorm life gets a four out of five. Great fun and good vibes but they lose a star because of threatened sense of privacy and rowdiness.

Academic rigor? USF sure has a lot of that! At USF, classes are challenging, difficult, and well designed to stretch student ability In general, classes are inspired, interesting, diverse, and fulfilling. But that does not come easily. Superior marks at USF are very difficult to earn and do not go to those who passively wait for them. At any one point, students are spending at least 25 hours hitting the books. That is about 5 hours a day in study. That is the norm here and do not expect it to be easy if you skimp. Let me sum it up: If you want to be challenged personally and academically, learn like you never learned before, be surrounded by students who have no problem debating with you, and want to have professor and faculty that will test you to the limits with no short cuts, USF is for you. If you want to breeze through school, get an easy degree without really working for it, and not having a fulfilling college experience, USF is not for you.

If you are enrolled or are planning on going to USF, here are a few tips that I wish I had. 1) Expect it to be hard. USF is challenging and difficult: personally and academically. You have to be open to challenge from peers and professor because it will come. With difficulty, you have two options: close up and avoid it or take the challenge head on. My advice? Charge the bull. You probably sacrifice some nights of fun but you will get good grades on your report card (and that is where the personally hard part comes in.) 2) Have fun. Here in San Francisco, there are so many things to do. From concerts in the park (that are free, you know) to shopping at the famous Union Square, there is always something fun to do. San Francisco is famous for never being dull and you willl have some stories to tell. Not to mention, USF hold regular dances, comedy nights, movie nights, sporting events, and other cool things to take the edge off of studying. 3) Stay focused. Like every good thing, there is a catch. USF is a fun place to live. USF sponsored a Macklemore concert not too long ago, serves as the Blue Angels practice space, and is generally a fun place to be. San Francisco is full of great food, awesome sights, and interesting people. But, you are attending a university. I know it is tempting to go wild with freedom but train yourself to see the bigger picture: you are there to make a future for yourself. Remember that, and you will enjoy everything USF has to offer you.

The University of San Francisco can be summed up in a word: diverse. From the students who go there to the classes that are offered, there are hardly any days that are the same. USF is a school where you will be challenged to the very core of what you believe in and will have fun doing it.

173. So many clubs for so many different things.

Out going

Go exploring the city like downtown, Haight, Chinatown, North Beach. Also check out all the amazingly delicious restaurants.

The food is a good variety, but after the first couple weeks you will get sick of it.

The experience is great. Its really common for everyone in the building to know each other.

Some of the classes are difficult, but it more than likely depends on the professor you have.

Try to avoid taking classes in LoMo if at all possible, unless you like walking. Try to get on-campus housing because the experience is unforgettable. One last thing, join any clubs that you have time for, like Tri-Beta.

Located in the heart of the city, it is one of the best universities in California. All the students are very friendly and the professors are always eager to help. The campus is also expanding to be prepared for an even more beautiful environment.

174. Public Safety patrols within a one-mile radius of campus and provides students with transportation during late hours.

USF's Greek Life is service-based. These students represent their organizations on and off campus and actively network with other Greek Life organizations in the Bay Area and beyond.

USF hosts academic, social, and interest-based clubs and provides students with membership to dozens of national student organizations. Through clubs and organizations, students can partake in on-campus activities, as well as attend conferences across the country and abroad. The creation of new student organizations to accommodate the interests of all students is encouraged; however, the registration process requires patience.

This is a dream school for self-driven students who are searching for immediate access to practical work experience and internship opportunities in San Francisco and beyond. USF successfully mixes modern with traditional, and has one of the most culturally and ethnically diverse student populations in the country.

St. Ignatius Church is located on the West end of campus and is a San Francisco landmark that can be spotted from across the Golden Gate Bridge. The Lone Mountain Campus is another scenic part of USF, with deep historical significance (Spanish Steps and a bell tower!). The campus' location in the middle of San Francisco offers students breathtaking views of the entire Bay Area.

For the cost of attendance, USF provides students with excellent learning resources and leadership opportunities. Motivated students thrive at this university, and the faculty facilitate smaller-sized classrooms well. Some of my professors also teach at Stanford University and say that they favor USF.

USF is centrally located in the middle of San Francisco, making it easy to access any area of the city within 30 minutes by bus. Each of the city's districts are well-known and extremely diverse; it is also one of the most beautiful and historically rich cities in the world. Traveling around the greater Bay Area is also relatively easy, with CalTrain or BART, and many students go to Oakland or San Jose for concerts and shows.

Bon Appetit is the catering company that has an exclusive contract with USF; it emphasizes sustainability and healthy diet, through an incorporation of local produce and sensible portion sizes. My roommate selected USF for the quality of its dining facilities and inclusive dietary options. Peet's Coffee is also served on campus.

As a member of the Residence Hall Association at USF, I can speak highly about each of USF's seven residence halls. Each hall is diverse and unique; co-ed floors/building and female-only options are available to students. I have loved living in Hayes-Healy Hall this year; the staff in each building train and work tirelessly to provide students with the highest degree of satisfaction with their residential experiences.

USF lives up to its Jesuit mission by challenging students to dig deeper into their academics and be self-driven learners. All of my courses have been taken in smaller classroom settings, with significant portions of discussion and practical application. First semester Chinese was the hardest course I have taken at USF, and because my professor pushed us to succeed, I excelled despite a late start.

Apply for the Martin-Baro Scholars Program Living-Learning Community. This dynamic, diverse first-year cohort community combines 5 core-requirement courses into one yearlong program that includes many excursions throughout the city. Students should also take advantage of the opportunities offered by pursuing all of their interests through clubs, student organizations, and exploring San Francisco.

USF is the only school that I applied to and it ended up being my dream school. This small, Jesuit institution is located in the middle of San Francisco; the campus is beautiful and we are a close-knit community of students. This university provides the best leadership development and educational opportunities to students who want to make the most of their college experiences, domestically and abroad.

175. world class

PARTY

have fun in the City.

I don't eat on campus

I don't live on campus but I've heard swanky things

professors are not here to make your life hard--they are here to educate you

Come here for the city. Stay for the ethically minded education. Leave with a job.

San Francisco is an amazing city with enough to offer to keep you engaged for a lifetime. USF has an excellent employment rate upon graduation.

176. Don't want to walk alone? USF provides a free shuttle to take you anywhere within 6 blocks of USF's campus. Campus Police also patrols the campus 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

Greek Life holds amazing mixers and socials. They're all held at beautiful clubs and lounges located in Downtown SF.

The Campus Activities Board holds the best concerts during the Fall & Spring semesters. Macklemore killed the last one.

Students who can appreciate the best of both worlds. 3 miles west and you have the beach. 1 mile north and you have some hiking. 1 mile east and you have the city. You can have it all here!

The Del Santo Reading room looks exactly like Hogwarts. Google it!

Yeah you pay 50k a year, but you also get a free MUNI pass. You can travel all of San Francisco for free, just for being a student here!

The San Francisco zoo, located about 15 minutes away, has free Resident days every month. Your USF id gets you in, FOR FREE! Not to mention the beach, just a short 20 minute bus ride away. Not into outdoor stuff? USF has an entire computer lab equipped with top-of-the-line Mac Pros, and a lounge with XBOX's and Playstations, all free to use.

New York Strip Steaks anyone? USF also has an entire area of the cafeteria dedicated to the Vegan and Vegetarian student population.

Your freshman dorm will shape and change your life. Your future bridesmaids are just one door over.

Professors at USF design their courses to be challenging but entertaining. Some professors in my 300 level courses still give us labs and activities involving cookies and gummy bears. Best part? They bring extra just for us to eat!

Save your monies. USF's tuition is steep but you get the best staff and facilities for your bucks. Also, bring some bronzer. Sunny days are hard to come by. (Unless you're into that look.)

USF is everything you could ever ask for. An aesthetically pleasing campus, challenging but manageable academics, and a spot on the list of schools that will make you rich. We're also blocks away from the best pizza joints in the city: anyone want a slice?

177. Go out and sightseeing is always fun. There are multiple things to do in the city.

Not the best food in the world.

It is not perfect depending on which building living on. Just be ready for anything especially with roommates make sure to get along with them.

The classes are fair and small. Are able to get one on one with the teacher which is always a plus.

Bring warm clothing but also a pair of shorts because you never know how the weather might be. Also be ready to engage in the community and with fellow students.

Its a warming environment. The professors are friendly and are always there for any questions or help. Also it is in the best city to be in.

178. The food court/cafeteria has fresh food made daily. Wide variety of options.

Dorms are extremely small. On the plus, one is provided with furniture.

Academically, USF is a bit tougher to get into. However, acceptance is very tangible.

179. Campus Safety is okay. I have not had to personally deal with them much. But, if you sprain your ankle, they will drive you to class.

There are only a few sororities and fraternities at USF, but they are not a big part of the overall school.

USF is building their swim program. They just renovated the pool and have a club swim team.

Being in San Francisco, there is always something going on. On Sunny days I will picnic in Golden Gate park, window shop in the Marina, or maybe participate in a Free Tibet March. On days when the weather is not so nice, I visit museums or find a new coffee shop.

The food at The University of San Francisco is not too bad. The dining hall offers a fair amount of options. My personal favorite thing is the chicken caesar wrap.

The dorms are clean but they need to be updated. Some dorms are nicer than others. The freshman dorms, like Gilson or Hayes-Healy, specifically need to be renovated and the not so nice parts are the things that end up bonding you with other residents in your hall.

The University of San Francisco is a fairly academically accommodating school. If you are struggling their are professors and tutors there to help.

At the University of San Francisco you will not find a typical college experience. Being in a city like San Francisco offers exposure to many different ideas and exposure to different cultures. If you are looking to party every weekend at a frat house, USF is not for you.

The University of San Francisco is a great university in the heart of San Francisco providing exciting learning opportunities. It is small enough for students to know their professors, but big enough that there are always things going on and new people to meet. The classroom extends beyond campus to the eclectic life of the city.

180. Students who enjoy being in a city environment but also like some time away, USF is in the perfect location where you can experience both of these environments.

Lone Mountain stairs are horrible!

Explore the city, eat, and shop

Great School, professors are very helpful, if you want a small private university this is the perfect fit. Very different environment compared to other bay area colleges/universities.

Beautiful Campus

181. All the dorm building have card reader on the outside so only students who live in that building can get in and all guest must be checked in. The campus isn't very big so you won't be walking alone.

We have so many clubs , there is something for everyone

All type of students, just because we are a private doesn't me we don't know how to party

Lone Mountain has the most amazing views... but its a hike that everyone has to eventually take

Honestly we are a Private Catholic University we aren't cheap but you are paying for quality

What isn't there to do for fun, living in the city the possibilities are endless. We get a bus pass that can take you anyway, Ocean beach is a must in September( SF's summer) only 25 min bus ride, 20 mins away from downtown mall, Shopping on Clement st. and going to Haight ( a 10 min walk)

We have a variety of food available in the main cafe and even more located in outtahere and outtakes, crossroads, the food in the main cafe is sometimes hit or miss

Dorm here at USF are amazing , i wish i could upload pic. Usually when people think of dorms they think of small crapped rooms, this is not the case, the rooms are nice, spacious, with tons of wall space and in my building we have private shower stalls and all the building are only accessible by keycard

Honestly the Prof. here care about their students , a plus of going a small University, you really get to create a bond with them.

If you haven't come to visit, you should the campus is beautiful and you can get a feel for it.

USF is in one of the most diverse cities in California. USF is beautiful and private; yet is in the middle of everything.

182. I hang out with a lot of my friends on the weekend. I also love photography.

There were a lot of options in the cafeteria, so it didn't feel like you had to eat the same food every night. There is a lot of space in the cafeteria to eat and spend time with your friends.

There was one very good dorm building, but they had very limited space so a lot of people couldn't get in. I met a lot of great people, but I thought the actual building could use a little work.

Depending on the major, the workload is a lot. I spend a lot of time studying, but it does pay off in the end.

Just be yourself, because the community is welcoming and there for you.

USF is a very diverse school where you can express yourself, and not be judged. Teachers are there to help you whenever you need them because the class sizes are small. There are many opportunities no matter what your background is.

183. The Greek Life isn't huge, but being in the sorority has helped me meet a lot of amazing girls.

It is in the heart of San Francisco, there is so much to do!

This school has provided me with a lot of opportunities so far. I transferred to University of San Francisco and do not regret my decision one bit. I highly recommend looking into this school.

184. It's San Francisco, just explore the city!

Eating on campus can be a drag since you're offered the same variety each and every day. However, there are specials so make sure to check those out!

The bathrooms are disgusting. The closets are small. Overall, not too shabby although highly expensive.

Schoolwork isn't that bad, unless you decide to push it till the very last minute. You come to a private university to study and pursue a higher education, so you must stay on top of all your classes.

You must actually study and remain on top of your schoolwork. So it's highly important to manage your time wisely! A planner is necessary for you to plan out when all your assignments are due and is a quick way to budget your time.

University of San Francisco is an amazing school. The campus is beautiful and there is a wide array of studious colleagues everywhere. Students are on track and teachers are willing to help students during office hours.

185. SFSU is a beautiful campus, great food, and a medium sized location. There are many classes to choose from, the classes seem small but that's great if you want the teacher to pay more attention to you.

186. Public Safety monitor and keep watch of campus security and are there for students 24/7.

It is very costly here, but if you are able to self-manage, you'll do fine like me.

Touring and discovering the city you're in!

Food at campus is not the best but the restaurants nearby are to 'die for' :P

I was a transfer student, but the dorm seems very safe and close to campus to make your Introductory Life to College easy :P

Depending on some courses and professors but most are very educational.

Be adventurous and explore the opportunities that USF have to offer.

One of the best and prestigious school in California.

187. The Public Safety department is great and will always be there if you need them.

There is not a lot of greek life.

There is a club for almost anything, and if there isn't you can make one!

It is pricey, but you're really paying for an amazing experience. Its worth it.

GO EXPLORE SAN FRANCISCO!

There is a lot of variety, but it can get old.

Everyone gets to be so close, its easy to meet people. Each dorm has bonding programs and provide opportunities to meet everyone.

The classes are tough, but your professors want

Go here if you want a close knit community and if you want to really know your peers and faculty.

The University of San Francisco is a community with strong moral values. We are so integrated into the San Francisco, making it impossible not to dive into so much culture. This university cares about each student and wants you to succeed.

188. Within the campus, there are always leadership and major-intended club events taking place. Also, the school gym holds many events, such as zumba, yoga, badminton, swimming, etc. Outside of the school, students get to explore the wonderful city around them using our MUNI passes, which is included within our tuition.

Food at the University of San Francisco is mostly organic and/or healthy. At the Market Cafe, one of the most busy and largest dining halls on campus, students gather together and share stories about their day while munching on healthy-but very delicious- food. The garbage area is even categorized with a green environment in mind: compost, recycle, and garbage.

My resident advisors have provided each student with a plethora of opportunities to feeling right at home, including movie nights, ice cream socials, and floor meet and greets. The space provided for students is within reason, as is the bathroom facilities. I am fortunate with such a friendly floor of girls- hellos are always precipitated throughout the halls, strangers or not.

Although I have just gone through my first week as a college student, my teachers' approach to teaching are all similar in that they plan on challenging students, yet promise a rewarding journey. University of San Francisco disperses into three major schools, which focus highly in depth of one's intended major. In addition, USF's four year graduation rate ranks in the higher 70 percentage, giving the school a respectable reputation.

I advise that prospective students look at the college application essay topic at least a month and a half in advance in order to best approach the question at hand. It is important to explore the feasible routes of approaching essay topics, and though it may seem as if writing about oneself should flow easily, getting one's point across effectively and concisely can prove to be a challenge.

An amiable blanket covers the school, which eases the socializing and stabilizes the close-knit friendships. This community's goal concentrates on making better of the world, as reflected in its motto. The overall morals of the school and the lively San Francisco environment make this school an ideal learning experience.

189. There are a few sororities and fraternities in comparison to other colleges.

It is really expensive, but USF wants their students to get their education and are very willing to help out their students academically

Explore San Francisco, attend events like concerts in San Francisco, go shopping in Union Square

The cafeteria has been newly renovated, so it is beautiful and more modern in comparison to other schools. After the food choices can get boring, but USF offers a lot of options from healthy foods to fast-food choices.

Dorm life is fun yet at times it is hard to live with people who have different living standards than you, such as wake-up times. Living in a dorm makes the distance to classes a lot shorter.

USF will academically challenge you, but there are professors and other services that are there to help you.

Don't lose your focus on your studies during your senior year.

University of San Francisco has a beautiful campus with a renovated cafeteria and new gym equipment. It is conveniently located in a popular place in San Francisco, and places like Haight-Ashbury are a short walk away. The intense nursing program is one of the distinguished programs here at USF. There is a lot of diversity here, which is great!

190. Pretty pricey, but then again so is the entire city.

Its San Fran!!! Go explore

Food is pretty good on campus but then again if its not up to your taste your could always walk down Fulton St to one of the many amazing restaurants in San Fran.

The school pairs you with someone you are compatible with and so far I think they have done a great job.

The classes aren't so much difficult as they are rigorous. The teachers assign a lot of homework.

Make sure you are prepared for rigorous lessons both in and out of the classrooms. Don't expect an easy time but do expect a rewarding experience.

The University of San Francisco is amazing mainly due to the city it is founded in. The culture and diversity of San Francisco is really apparent within the campus. This gives students a truly unique experience.

191. USF is an expensive private school. However, the small class sizes and good professors make up for it. Our largest class is never over sixty students.

You're in San Francisco! There are so many areas of the city to explore. Hop on the bus (USF's tuition includes a MUNI pass) and see where it takes you!

The quality of the food at USF is good. They use local, organic, food. Sometimes, the chefs at the school do not prepare the food to its' fullest potential. There are a large number of options to choose from.

The dorms here are fine. They are a little old but they are slowly getting renovated.

The classes at USF can be challenging. With small class sizes the professors expect a lot out of their students. They also care about the student's work and overall learning experience.

If you are looking for a school located within a large city, which still has a campus-like feel, USF is the perfect school!

USF is the University of the best city ever. Studying in San Francisco is a truly amazing and unique experience. Small classes and great professors makes learning enjoyable.

192. safety poles everywhere and security when you need it

nursing club, food club, any club you want-they have it :))

nursing, liberal arts degree

i chose usf because of the urban environment as well as the exceptional nursing program, which i will be apart of this fall.

koret center-including their weekend getaway fieldtrips, the beach is 5 minutes away, the shopping scene is spectacular, the park is a 1 minute walk

Don't stress about getting into school, if you do your best you'll find the right school for you.

I would give USF an A- because it has so much to offer including education, student activities, location, however the size could be a bit larger.

193. The food is good but crazy expensive with or without Flexi!

I never lived in the dorms, but I have visited friends who did and heard stories. Over all, it's an easy way to meet people outside of class, but sometimes dorms can get a little crazy, especially by those who don't like to follow rules.

All professors, interesting or not, are all very knowledgeable and willing to help. If you don't understand in class, go to to their office hours when they can break down the lecture and explain slower. Also, not all professors are necessarily easy; some want to challenge you with critical thinking questions.

Do all the reading, take good notes, and form study groups.

194. The campus safety is vigilant. Students are notified via email of alerts.

There is a large greek life, and everyone is welcomed to join.

There are many different clubs available to join. There are many activities also. As a student, I am notified via our school email about all instances.

All types. Our sports program has a lot of variety, there are many fraternities and sororities, there is a huge nightlife nearby, and everyone I've run into is very friendly.

Our school is a Jesuit school, and as a follower of the Catholic faith, I appreciate the masses that are held on holy days.

The tuition is expensive, but you get what you pay for. The class size is small, the campus is beautiful, and they are rated as one of the best schools in California.

There are many options for fun things to do around this campus. There is a huge nightlife with bars, live music, or clubs available to any style. Comedy clubs are a great way to spend an evening. I like to go to the beach and to golden gate park for a day trip. Visiting the old San Francisco bath house is a beautiful day trip to explore.

The cafes on campus are fresh and reasonably priced. There are so many different restaurants nearby. With a wide variety of cultural diversity in San Francisco, many options are available. The public transportation is extremely available to get you where you want to go. San Francisco is a big city with so many exquisite dining options.

I have not lived in the dorms yet, but am interested in them. All of my fellow classmates who have lived in the dorms only have good things to say. They were selected to live with people like them, as they had to fill out a survey about themselves before they were assigned to a room. I am interested in moving there once I start nursing clinicals next year.

The classes at USF are not easy, but if you stay on top of your homework, and do what is asked of you you will flourish. Taking a little time each day to do required readings will keep you on top of your studies. A little each day will go a long way in the end instead of cramming at the last minute.

Tips on getting accepted are to keep your grades up , do extracurricular activities, learn a second language, attend a religious affiliation regularly, and have a great letter of recommendation written for you by your best teacher.

The campus is beautiful with vintage buildings and lush greenery. The teachers are extremely helpful, making sure you understand the material. There is a wide variety of classes from general to specific, and class size is small.

195. The campus is very safe. There's always a security guard walking around at all hours.

Greek life isn't big. There's only 2 sororities and no fraternities.

USF is more for mature and serious students. The workload is tough.

You're in San Francisco! Clubs, bars, Haight, museums, Ghiradelli Square, downtown shopping, and touristy things.

The cafeteria has a lot of options. I'm a really picky eater and I still found food I liked at USF. The even have a vegetarian and vegan section.

A dorm is a dorm.

USF definitely pushes you but compared to bigger schools, I felt like the professors are more available and willing to help anyone seeking assistance.

USF is not a party school. Of course students definitely have fun, don't expect to go to tons of house parties because you have to remember the school is right in the middle of the city so off campus apartments are not very big.

I would give USF 4 out of 5. All my professors made an effort to help me and get to know me as an individual not as just a number. The facilities are really nice but it is too expensive in my opinion.

196. USF has public safety staff that commit to our students' safety. They often patrol the campuses and dorms. In addition, they offer service such as shuttle and escorts to ensure one's safety.

The Greek life is growing, but it does not play a huge role at USF. The social Greek life is limited, but USF offers many other academic fraternities. USF 's sororities and fraternities provide a smaller, but unique opportunity of sister and brotherhood as well as an overall great experience.

With over 100 activities, USF provides a vast range of opportunities to get involved. There is a USF Club Connect and many involvement fairs that can help students find an activity that they are interested in. Our clubs and organizations also bring forth an opportunity to meet and grow closer with other students.

-Prefer smaller class sizes and a relationship with their professors

-Free sporting events -Wandering the city -A diverse and vast amount of eateries

USF has a more than 5 dining cafes that are scattered amongst the campuses. Bon Appetit prides themselves for serving tasteful, organic, and fresh dishes. With popular dishes from South America to Asia, burgers to salads, organic smoothies to frozen yogurt- USF offers a variety of food. In addition, the city of San Francisco has many amazing eateries.

The dorm life at USF was a truly wonderful experience that I recommend to all students. USF 's dorms have several lounges within individual dorms where students play games, watch television, study, and participate in the dorm activities and events. The rooms are spacious enough and the bathrooms are cleaned twice a week. The laundry rooms are in close proximity on the ground floor as well as the classrooms. The dorm events that involved waffle Wednesdays, talent shows, gingerbread house making, and much more made the experience event better. You meet a lot of individuals through this experience and it makes it easier to visit to create strong friendships.

USF offers many academically challenging courses as well as unique academic programs. The university is driven to provide students with courses that allows their talent, skills, and knowledge to thrive as well as be challenged. With smaller classes, professors individually encourage their students to work at their highest potential and students truly succeed because of this relationship. USF prides themselves in having a higher standard for their student's education that is also globally aware and socially beneficial.

USF is truly a university in the best city ever. It has such a wonderful mixture of challenging academics, fun social activities and life, diverse music, foods, and cultures. Also, as a student of this university you have San Francisco as your playground.

197. Very safe.

Heavy greek presence although we do not have houses.

Many ways to get involved.

Great for urban students who care about social justice.

It is over priced.

The city is amazing and you can find anything to do. There are lots of parties on the weekends around the campus if you do not want to venture into the city.

The cafeteria is not very good.

Dorm life is amazing you make life long friends in the dorms.

The classes are challenging, especially the science classes.

Go take a tour of the campus while students are attending class and ask then how they feel about the school.

San Francisco is the best city to attend college. The freshman fifteen happens in the opposite direction. The classes are challenging.

198. USF campus is very safe in my experience. It is in a city, but with a small campus and great staff of Public Safety Officers, it is a very safe campus.

Because the city of San Francisco does not allow frat/sorority houses, Greek life is minimal on campus, but if there is a frat or sorority you wish to bring on campus, you may apply to do so!

USF has many clubs and activities. Another plus is that you always have the option to make your own clubs with a minimum of 3 people.

USF is truley great for any type of student. Maybe not so much for a student looking for a big campus with a busy campus life.

For some reason every first Friday and last Friday of each semester, student put washing detergent in the fountains causing them to foam up... it is kind of funny and harmless because the suds disappear in a few days.

USF is an expensive school, but in fairness the programs (such as study abroad) are unlike any other school I have seen. USF also has great classes with a small class size, and great internship programs. USF truly does provide more bang for the buck

There are so many clubs and organizations to participate in at USF. If by chance organized sports or recreation isnt your scene, there is the beautiful Golden Gate park only a few blocks away that is great for walks or jogs with Ocean Beach at its end.

The meal plan is very helpful. The cafeteria does not change up the food much so its generally the same options, but with low cost supermarkets near by, its easy to buy groceries and cook in the provided kitchens, then grab something if needed in the cafeteria between classes.

Dorm life in USF improves as you move up in years. They may not be the nicest of college dorms, but they do for sure offer a great sense of community and proximity to classes is perfect.

USF prides itself in academic standards. The classes are challenging, but the professors are very helpful. This is one of the reasons that I love USF, challenging academics with helpful professors. Its the sort of environment that allows to to challenge yourself, but feeling as if the professors are routing for you.

Join online (facebook) communities for incoming students, it will help you to make friends before you actually move in. Talk with the financial aid office to find out your options, because as a freshman (and even as a senior) tuition and other costs are very confusing and stressful. Be organized.

The University of San Francisco is home. You feel your sense of belonging and Don's pride right away. It is a small University but makes for a comfortable setting.

199. Tourist attractions and visiting different districts are fun things to do in San Francisco, in addition to the parks, if it is a nice day. At night, there are a lot of bars and nightclubs and a lot of concerts and festivals that are in the city. Of course there is a lot of shopping. Students also go to cities in the Bay Area because there are fairs, concerts and a lot of other schools to visit.

The food at USF is better than most other cafeteria foods, and they really try to have healthy, diverse options. Sometimes the food is on the salty side, but even in the one year I was at USF, there was a noticable difference in food options.

Dorm life is a good way to meet other people, you get really close to the people on your floor. The bathrooms are cleaned regularly, something that was really important to me. The rooms are on the smaller side, and dorm rules regarding drinking, drugs and guests are fairly strict, but for good reason. Before the rules about guests were strict, homeless people had snuck into dorms! The best part about dorms are that you have the chance to have an amazing view of the city, if you are lucky.

I have not yet had any major courses, as I only scheduled core curriculum classes for my first year. My core classes were reasonable, with a decent work load, but not necessarily daily homework. In a lot of classes I had reading assignments and longer- term projects and papers, rather than on-paper work to prepare every night for the next class period.

A lot of professors at USF have had experience at really good Bay Area schools, such as Stanford and UC Berkley, so they really know what they are doing. The city and surrounding Bay Area cities have so much culture and so much to offer people our age.

USF is a small, liberal arts college with a strong nursing program. A lot of classes use the city as a learning tool, something that helps students to be more involved with their surroundings. The campus is also in the city, but not close enough to downtown to be constantly distracted by the nightlife of the city.

200. Not big on greek life

Go out and explore the city!

Be prepared to study. Explore the city.

It has great staff. Classes are challenging. It's in an amazing city.

201. Explore the city!

Apply early so you are eligible for the University Scholars program!

Great location! Great education!

202. The Koret recreation center is an excellent place for physical activities and there are many restaurants nearby. The Golden gate park also has some museums and art exhibit showings.

The cafeteria offers food that is considered 5 stars. There is a variation of flavors from japanese cuisine to american. There is also gelato and other desserts.

I live off campus so I'm not sure how the dorm life is like.

I am in the nursing program. The courses are hard, but I learn a lot from my professors

My tips would be to research professors online to learn about their teaching style prior to selecting them.

The University contains great ethnic diversity. The majors offered in this school are world-renown such as the school of law and the school of nursing. The professors and advisors are excellent and are easily accessible for office hours.

203. A+! There's even some vans that drive around the campus area and beyond to pick up students who feel unsafe in certain areas and drive them back to their dorm. It's especially nice for students on Lone Mountain ;)

I'm not involved in Greek Life personally, but it's definitely a thriving community! I have friends involved and they are constantly holding events and things which seems pretty fun.

Everyone!

A bit expensive, but totally worth it.

Clubs, sports, Koret Gym has many options for working out (pool as well), or enjoy the beautiful city of San Francisco! It's very easy to get places since USF issues you a Muni pass (sticker that goes on ID) so you don't constantly have to carry around cash with you.

The atmosphere and quality of the food in the various cafe's located on campus are a wonderful addition and suit all of your cravings!

Dorm life is wonderful! There are various dorms for freshman, sophomores, juniors, and seniors, so one shouldn't have trouble finding housing. The RA's are very friendly and make your dorm experience enjoyable. The rooms are in tip-top shape and make it easy to feel at home.

The courses are challenging and the instructors are very helpful which makes for a great learning experience.

Transferring to USF is very easy, and based on personal experience I was very happy to transfer here. All of my credits came through and everyone I spoke with was very nice. Apply early to meet deadlines, but if you are transferring they may give some leeway which is nice. Also if you are a student here at USF, don't be afraid to get involved!

The University of San Francisco has a beautiful campus with an excellent learning environment. Teachers are friendly and hands on which make learning fun, and they are readily available if help is needed. Students and staff are very amiable making it easy to assimilate yourself in the USF environment, for not only is the campus wonderful but the city is also a great resource for students.

204. Campus safety is awesome. If you live within a certain radius they will drive you home.

Greek life is becoming more popular at USF :) because before it was nonexistent.

Ample amount of clubs and activities. If you are interested there are lots of involvement with the church.

Great for students who are about diversity, equality, and on a mission to better the world!

The cafeteria is a pretty big hang out, also right outside the bookstore they have a big fire place where there are couches and sofas that people hang out at as well. If your a psychology student you will spend a lot of time in K-hall...And all students spend a decent amount of time in the library, atleast through my experience.

The university is extremely expensive (everything down to the donut in the cafeteria) and sometimes you feel like you are definetly getting ripped off.

There are serorities and fraternities that are becoming active at the university. There are numerous clubs that put on fun activities that you can attend, even if you are not part of the club.

Get involved and get to know your teachers. Doing this will only improve your college experience at USF.

The university is great for someone who wants diversity and school involvement. Class are hard and you must be dedicated to your school work. You will be on a first name basis with almost all of your teachers.

205. Explore the city!! There are so many things to do in San Francisco, you almost can't squeeze it into your 4 years at school. Go to the multiple farmer's markets, go on a hike along the coast, visit the Palace of Fine Arts, Golden Gate Bridge, or Twin Peaks, check out Chestnut Street. The list can go on and on.

The cafeteria food is really good compared to other schools, and they are trying to be health conscious. I definitely miss home-cooked meals though!

I loved the community I have had in the dorms. Some of my closest friends are the ones I made freshman year on my floor. I definitely recommend living in the dorms for at least your first 2 years.

I'm in the nursing program which is hard work, but you can definitely see the results.

Your college experience is what you make of it, choose the place that you feel called to and go for it. No matter where you end up, you can choose to make it an awesome 4 years.

USF is a beautiful school located in one of the coolest cities in the U.S. The classes are fun, the community on campus is lively and engaging, and the friends you meet are definitely the ones who will be in your life for a long time. I've really enjoyed my experience at school, and in the city surrounding it.

206. wear some flowers in your hair

beautiful campus, great programs professors and approach etc.

207. Not once have I ever felt uneasy walking around campus. Even when returning from a class last semester at 10:30-10:45 pm, where I had to walk across the main plaza of campus, I felt safe. When incidents are reported, the school automatically emails everyone, informing them to watch out so something similar does not happen to them.

The school is starting to have Greek Life, but there is not a specific 'Greek Housing' area since there are none. Don't expect an Animal House-styled experience if you're into that. A majority are service fraternities and sororities.

Those who like smaller campuses and want to live in a large city, this is the ideal school for you!

We're built on top of an old grave yard, so you'll hear a lot about hauntings in certain buildings, especially in Lone Mountain. Your RA will inform you about any school stories/traditions if you're curious

USF is a short bus distance away from Union Square and the beach, as well as a block away from Golden Gate Park, so transportation is definitely an easy thing to do. San Francisco is a city to experience different cultures, so go out and experience it all! I'd recommend Mozzeria since I am currently in an American Sign Language course and had to go there for my Deaf culture experience. The food is phenomenal, and it is actually relatively easy for non-signers to order, too. It's an interesting experience, in a good way!

It's a college cafeteria with a majority of its food made in the kitchen and is catering to a large amount of students, what do you expect? However, with its spring semester menu, the food has become a lot more enjoyable, and they are now carrying a larger variety of foods (hence the 4 stars). The caf still needs to have more vegetarian/vegan options, however. I personally am not a vegetarian but the lack of options is noticeable.

There will obviously be some people who go out to parties and come back drunk, and there will always be that one person who blasts their music at obscure hours of the day, especially after quiet hours. However, my experience in the dorms has been amazing. I have a great group of friends, my RA is awesome and genuinely cares about my well-being, and everyone on the floor seems to get along with each other.

One thing that I can definitely point out about USF is that they are determined to get you out of here in 4 years with your bachelor's, 5 years for bachelor and master's if you're studying to become a teacher as well as major in something else. On multiple occasions my professors have emailed me outside of class, curious as to how my experience with the course was going, as well as some resources to help study from.

Learn. Time. Management! I learned that the hard way, and was put on academic probation. This semester, however, I am doing far better than my previous semester, and my professors and Back on Track staff members have been extraordinary to assisting me to be the best that I can be.

A smaller campus in a thriving city, the University of San Francisco is a great school with phenomenal staff, students, and classes. Though the major choices are limited, the professors are dedicated to their work and to helping the students succeed.

208. the tuition is quite expensive

study !

maybe a campus visit might help

The school is not really big. I heard that the professors are really accessible and nice. There are relatively small classes

209. Try to explore the campus and mingle with students from different states and countries.

Excellent but expensive

I am not going to live in the dorm

USF israted in the top tier nationally and among the nation's top schools for diversity. It's committed to excellence in teaching, scholarship, service, and creative expression. USF gives students the means to understand and appreciate differing cultures and to contribute academically and professionally across the nation and the globe.

210. There were a few thefts in the pass, but we have public safety officers patrolling the campus throughout the day.

There are many different Greek organizations at this college. They can range from academic, social, innovative, etc.

There's a club/organization for everyone. From academic to leisurely clubs.

There are tons of superstitious horror stories that students like to tell newcomers.

The college has an amazing gym, lounges area equipped with big screen tvs and some with video games, and very nice study rooms that are used as conference rooms during the day time.

Like any other college student, I go out with my friends for fun, food, and laughter.

Food is quite expensive on campus. The food is mediocre. Sometimes there are good dishes but the menu can be quite repetitive.

It depends on what building and floor you dorm in. Some floors are more prone to partying while others are quiet.

Depending on the subject, the difficulty may vary, but there is much knowledge to gain.

If you plan on living in the dorms, wear slippers even in the showers. If you don't plan on living in the dorms, join an organization to meet people because it's hard to make friends when you have to commute.

The campus is nice except for the ongoing construction. The population contains a wide range of diversity and personalities. I'd rate the school 4/5.

211. i've never felt unsafe, and safety officers are usually around - they're nearly always around or nearby at night/early morning too.

^ explained in clubs and activities

we have everything from rugby (even for girls) to bible study groups to peta-ish groups to gay-straight alliance clubs, latino/a clubs, some sororities (not like in your college movies, they're much nicer and smarter), we've got basketball, baseball... the list goes on forever.

- open minded - not afraid to express themselves/afraid of others doing this - lovers and fighters for love (not just romantic) - social justice lovers - art lovers - people who love close interaction with their teachers and other classmates -people who want to be more in college than just a number

the education building on campus was formerly presentation high school. it's a beautiful part of the school - well it all is besides the construction being done haha. but when the new science building is finished it will be amazing!

i am a mostly-financial aid student and i really wish costs were even just $3,000 less per semester cause that would save me! but as far as a beautiful campus, breath-taking church (and i'm not religious), a super supportive staff, friendly students and overall awesomeness, it's pretty good. especially because the school is really generous with grants and scholarships. they gave me a grant for over $18,000 just for financial need (not including my grades). for applying with a 3.63 gpa they gave me a $7,000 scholarship that's renewable for four years as long as i keep up a 3.0 gpa. and if you really do need more money, the one stop office for financial aid will tell you to have your parents apply for a plus loan (from the federal government) even if your parents have crap credit (mine do). and when you get a rejection letter, you notify the school and they will help you get approved for an increase on your federal unsubsidized loan. (if this is jibberish, they'll explain everything better).

everyone here goes downtown shopping in westfield mall which is super easy to get to by public transportation and it's amazing! it's beautiful, huge, and overall just amazing. there are like four floors filled with endless amounts of stuff to do, taste, try on and just experience. another big thing here is going to the always interesting and limit-testing haight street which is within walking distance to school. this is where everyone goes for cool, interesting clothes, organic tea shops, and of course tattoo and piercing places. and on campus there is usually something going on just about every night. and every event is publicized on bulletin boards all over campus.

we do have a wide selection around noon (when it is unreasonably packed with people) but they run out of the tasty nutritious stuff too quickly, all that gets left is hamburgers and fries and pizza and burritos - which is all pretty good (well the pizza has gone downhill since fall) but after a few days of eating that and being in class when the good food is being served.... it can get annoying.

i live in phelan hall (recently renovated) and it's absolutely beautiful. the only thing to watch out for is gilson hall. phelan used to be the jock building so it was trashy and stinky but now gilson is inheriting the name ghetto gilson. i think they'll renovate that building this summer but i can't say for sure...

it's tough in some, few classes but most teachers here actually want to see yo succeed. crazy right? here it's not. teachers have a passion for teaching and really, truly want you to understand or even go so far as love what they are talking about. teachers here love students who have strong opinions and who participate in discussions. the rest is pretty easy. oh yeah, they love it when you see them out of class during their office hours. even if you just sit with them and talk about a movie that just came out, or just to do your homework, they like to know more about you. plus, this way when they have to write you a letter of recommendation they know a lot about you and have tons to say.

write an honest, good essay in your applications. your gpa and sat scores are not all of who you are, they barely represent you. with interesting letters of recommendations from people who really know the type of person as well as the type of student you are, usf is more likely to overlook iffy scores and gpas. they want overall, good, interesting people to come to their school cause no other type of people could possibly fit in here.

usf is a school for every type of person who is at least accepting of all other types of people. being in san francisco, this school is filled with just about every kind of person from everywhere in the world, from a small village in ohio, to a big city on louisiana to china - everyone comes here to get along with everyone and to fit in. everyone fits in because everyone is here.

212. san francisco and the bay area have a lot to offer, culture, dining, arts, entertainment!

make sure you have completed all of your general education classes before transferring here, especially philophosy.

i love the diversity this school has, the professional learning programs are great for a busy adult such as myself. great campus locations make it difficult to come up with an excuse not to finish your degree!

213. public safety does a very good job in making students feel safe 24/7.

greek life is mostly academic and there are no houses. nonetheless, although it may seem like it is not as big as other universities, they are present on campus and do make a difference in our community.

there are hundreds of clubs and organizations for absolutely anybody and all kinds of interests and hobbies.

anybody interested in the liberal arts who have a wide array of interests. those interested in the environment, social justice, and making the world a more peaceful and just place.

basketball games are very fun, and 'los locos' is the official club to join if you are interested in cheering for your favorite sports. we have homecoming concerts when famous artists perform for the students.

this school is very expensive, but they provide you with scholarships and grants, and the education is top notch.

the city of san francisco is your playground. students get together to explore the infinite amount of fun activities in the city, and the school provides students with trip opportunities (i.e. skiing) and fun events (i.e. culturescape, concerts, sports games) there are also a lot of clubs on campus that are interesting, educational, and fun.

our cafeteria caters some of the best dishes i have ever eaten. they have a lot of variety and the food is always organic and fresh. there are no fast food places which means that the food is healthy and well made.

i had great experiences living in my dorm because i met a lot of interesting people, and i had easy accessibility to campus and to the city.

the professors make sure that you are on track with assignments because they care about what they are teaching, and about their students' learning.

if you like small class sizes, this school is perfect for you. make sure to stay involved because although it is a small university, you could miss out on important and fun events. attend those events to make friends and learn about your community. stay on top of your work!

this university is great for social service and catering to our community. the majors are designed to provide a liberal arts education, while preparing students for the real world. there is great diversity on campus, and opportunities to join clubs or organizations are endless.

214. I think that the University of San Francisco is a wonderful school for all races and cultures. This university values individuals' culture and beliefs while standing strong with the goal of making the world a better place. It is a wonderful school that motivates the individual to strive for something more than just attaining a degree.

The advice I would give prospective students is to value your education when looking for the right school. Choosing the right college to attend is like buying a new pair of shoes. Try them on, walk around in them and if you like them use your resources: family, college staff, to help you achieve your goals.

Being a single mother of two children I find that the Tuition is very high and the only way I am able to attend this school is through student loans. However, I am always looking for scholarships and grants to help with my student fees and expenses. Although I have not been very successful I am trusting that the education I receive at this institution will pay off in the end.

I am enjoying being at the University of San Francisco, it is a beautiful campus with a wonderful reputation. I am blessed to have the opportunity to be a part of this school.

Spring 2012 is my third semester at the University of San Francisco and I highly recommend this University to nursing majors. The professors are very helpful and intuitive to each student and present the subjects well.

215. Nursing, Business, Hospitality, Med students, Law, Arts.

Know your declared major, USF is a great school if you already know exactly what you want. If unsure USF might not be your best bet at first. Try state schools or community colleges to explore majors and then keep USF in mind for transferring to.

The tuition at USF is very expensive but the amount of opportunity you have to learn and the experience is priceless.

USF offers a beautiful campus and in the heart of one of the most beautiful cities in the world, what more can you ask for.

The nursing program at USF is wonderful and vigorous. I have been challenged mentally, emotionally & psychologically, which i believe is a recipe for success and preparation for the real world and what my life will be like as a nurse.

216. Open-minded, thoughtful, caring students who enjoy getting to know their teachers, their inner selves, other students, and participate or at least respect social justice movements.

If you're afraid your GPA isn't high enough or that your SAT scores are not the greatest, it's okay. At USF and other small private universities the people who go through applications will be far more impressed with a student who turns in thoughtful, personal essays and meaningful, unique letters of recommendation than a person with pointless essays, dry letters of recommendation and good grades/SAT scores. Not that grades do not matter - they do. But being open, honest, and unique in your essays will give you a big push above others similar to you in the number world (test scores and grades).

The only downside is that living on campus means you have to use the Flexi-Meal-Plan in the cafeteria. For someone who doesn't eat very much that means having about $2,000 per semester and only using $1,200 of it. The money is transferable during the same school year (what you have left over in the Fall goes on to add to the Spring, but it does not transfer over the summer). I just wish I could use the left over money toward my student loans/paying for next school year rather than forcing myself to eat more.

The people are great and even the teachers who might seem stern are actually very supportive of you in and outside of the classroom. The teachers here love students who are involved, ask questions, and support social justice.

Especially being in the Saint Ignatius Institute (a Great Books Program/ Learning Community), I am learning a great deal while enjoying what I am learning from the wonderful teachers here.

217. This university is great for all types of students who are looking for something different in a great environment. Whatever your personality may be, you will find people that are like you and people that are the opposite of you whom might turn into your best friends.

Get out every day and explore the city; the transportation system is very reliable and free. The better you get to know the city, the easier it is to plan memorable weekends with friends, loved ones, and that special person in your life. Another thing, Phelan Hall was just re-modelled this year, you should definitely choose to live in this hall!

It's a private University, so you bet tuition is expensive. However, you are paying for great education with a wonderful campus in one of the funnest cities in America. On-campus housing is a little expensive, but beneficial because the dorms are just feet away from the classrooms, the library, the cafeteria, the gym, etc.

It's San Francisco! There's always something to do! Of course I'm having fun here! The people are very diverse, so it's pretty easy to find quality friends with whom you can experience awesome adventures throughout the city. It's a small campus, but students are always willing to go out. For some reason, you can never really finish exploring the city of San Francisco.

Every class is essential, regardless if it's a major course or a core requirement, you learn from it. Sure some classes may be long and boring, but the skills that you learn from the class are useful and can be applied to everyday life. Other classes might be very difficult and you could hate yourself for not dropping it at the beginning of the semester, but you realize that the material is a very interesting topic so you ultimately pull through it and learn a lot.

218. Great school! Love the campus, it's location, and the family/faith-based community.

219. This is an awesome school for anyone who indeed wants to change the world and receive a beautiful degree. A degree from the University of San Francisco will look good no matter where you go-- if you want to work hard and be involved in the school and the city, then this is the place for you.

If you are anything like me and struggle financially, apply early for scholarships, grants, and any other financial aid. It is important to get that out of the way early in the game so you aren't stressing about it later (like me).

Honestly, I went to community college first and got the same quality of education. It feels like I am paying for the landscape and beauty of the school rather than the education. Although the learning is top notch, I received the same in community college. Remember that this will change from professor to professor. Just do not expect delicious cafeteria food and top notch education everywhere you go.

The school is in a very good neighborhood in the heart of San Francisco! It doesn't get much more exciting than that. The people are great; however, it is not uncommon to run into cliques. I have had the most fun getting involved in extra curricular activities and taking advantage of what the city has to offer.

I have indeed been learning a lot since I have been here; it is a great school with some hearty core values that will help you for the rest of your life. Generally, this is a campus full of professors dedicated to your education. The class sizes range from 20-40 students and it is nice to get one on one education when you need it.

220. Outgoing, Independent, Open-minded students.

While the school is an expansive private school, I am a complete believer that it is worth every penny. Starting with our class sizes and the close relationships we are able to build with professors and advisers. Paying this much is also worth it because I can enroll in the classes I need and as long as I stay focused, I can graduate in 4 years. Graduating in 4 years is something most colleges can no longer guarantee.

USF's location is absolutely perfect. Students are able to live in the center of the city and use the city as a learning tool. There are tons of internships, jobs, and activities in the city that are offered to students to further expand their knowledge and experience with any area of interest.

The classes provided at USF are engaging and challenging. I enjoy having courses cover topics that are interesting and help students learn how to apply the knowledge obtained in a class room to the real world.

221. The university provide a good financial aid. They have numerous scholarships sources and they are always there when you have money problems

University of San Francisco is cool because it is located in the heart of San Francisco. I love the atmosphere of the school and it enables you to create your own education preference.

The education here is excellent. The advisers are always there to help you when you choose and register for classes. They help you graduate in four years, they provide you with many internships and they help you get into graduate schools.

222. Are there lots of clubs and organizations, sports, outdoor activities, and or things to do outside the school, on weekends and stuff, I want to know!!!

Hi, I'm wondering how big the university is such as the class size and the whole campus.

223. free spirits.

Save up as much as you because because you will spend more than you budget for. Bring walking shoes and lose your nerves because anything is possible here is you are willing to go out and make it happen.

Though expensive, definitely worth it. Even more so than the school is the expenses of living in San Francisco, which one has to take into account.

It's not too big, but not too small. Classes are comfortable; not 300 student auditoriums.

Not only do you learn from the professors, but the city also acts as a teacher in any subject. You are interacting with your environment, and learning about life.

224. Anyone, really. But especially those who are passionate about their education and interest in the job and social opportunities that San Francisco has to offer.

When you're visiting, make friends with a student at USF. I can't speak for everyone, but I am extremely passionate about my school and would jump at the opportunity to sit down with a prospective student to tell them all about my experience. I'd be happy to even give out my number or email address to keep in contact and even host a student overnight to get the full experience. I really believe that anyone who is seriously considering USF needs to experience the city as well as the school to get a complete idea of what going here entails.

To be completely honest, I (as well as the rest of the USF population) believe the tuition to be a little pricey. It was overwhelming at first, but then I realized just how happy I am here and the opportunities its going to provide for me. Once I sat back and allowed myself to acknowledge this, the price tag didn't bother me as much. Yes, I may have to take on more loans or work an extra job on top of an internship over my summers, but in the end, I believe there is no better investment than in one's education and future. It's the gift that keeps on giving.

The University of San Francisco is a perfect blend of college offerings. I truly believe that it can be the right fit for anyone. I originally thought that a big city wasn't for me, but upon arriving at USF, I realized that I wasn't looking at the school collectively and had simply been assessing it on surface traits. USF is a small, community-based campus that offers an incredible education and provides an atmosphere to foster close, personal relationships with faculty, staff and peers. Often times people assume to get such an education, one has to attend a school in a small college town. That's where USF is set apart from the rest. You get the intimate education while still having access to the opportunities of a large, international city. If you are looking to jump into a career straight out of college, there is no better environment than San Francisco. Plus, USF is just a quick mode of public transit away from neighboring school such as SF State, several arts schools and UC Berkeley. I truly feel blessed to be in such a perfect college environment.

USF provides an excellent education. All of my professors are engaged and interest not only in your performance in their class, but your other classes as well. They know your name, care about you and are always willing to talk. They also make an effort to keep their course material relevant to your life as a student and global citizen. Current events are constantly incorporated and there are tons of opportunity to get involved in an array of different academic and social topics.

225. Follow your heart when choosing a college and look for scholarships wherever you can!

USF is definitely an expensive school but if it has your major it is definitely worth it. Nursing, accounting, and entrepreneurship are three excellent majors that USF has. If you're undeclared I would reccomend going to junior college first.

At first. I didn't really enjoy USF because I was living at home but eventually I met everyone and began to enjoy it more. It's definitely a big adjustment, but once you get the hang of things it's better.

I'm definitely learning a lot, but I feel like it depends on the professor you have. Some teachers are truly there so that you may learn and succeed and others are there so that they can teach and leave.

226. If you want the chance to try lots of different things, San Francisco is a good place for you. You should also like walking, as this is the mode of transportation for many San Franciscans. If you want a beautiful campus with very helpful professors, you will like University of San Francisco. USF really tries to help students get out into the city. Your college classes will likely still have field trips here.

San Francisco is not what you would typically imagine as California. It's cold here. It's advised to always dress in layers, bring a jacket, and an umbrella if possible because the weather can also fluctuate greatly throughout the day. If you are a sun lover, you might get gloomy in the fog and overcast skies of San Francisco. Make sure you keep track of your budget. It's easy to spend a fortune going out every week in the city. For freshman housing, Gillson is an older dorm and has not been renovated recently. Hayes-Healy has new elevators, an extra lounge, the kitchen on the first floor instead of the basement, and mirrors in each dorm room. However, HH is the most desired dorm and fills up really quickly. If you can't get it don't worry. Gillson has it's own pride. For example, this year we house USF's athletes.

USF is really expensive. Compensation comes in the beautifully landscaped campus, good and varied (however often unavailable) cafeteria food, small classes, and a city bus pass.

San Francisco is a really cool place. There are endless places to see. Lots of things expensive and of lots of things cheap. Either way, you won't easily get bored. There aren't as many on-campus activities as I hoped; I've found people are more pulled to go off-campus for fun. The city makes up for it though.

The small class sizes are great. I've gotten the chance to know everyone in my classes at least by name and my professors. All of my professors have been really wonderful and helpful. I give only a three because while the classes are challenging I'm not sure if it's because I'm learning a lot academically. I think I'm more learning how to manage my time and generally to live away from home.

227. Anyone and everyone! USF is known for being a diverse campus. It's a smaller private school but the people they accept, domestic & international students, are great people to get to know. Also, if you love being in a big city, USF is a great location. You're in a great neighborhood and only blocks away from great places and restaurants.

From my experience at the moment, science majors have a lot of work cut out for them. Don't be afraid to challenge yourself, especially if you have a great deal of interest in the sciences, but may or may not feel like you would do so well. Like I've said before, there's a great deal of resources on campus that can help you succeed. If you've taken AP classes in high school, definitely send your scores right away because I've gotten credit for the ones that I've passed. If you get a 5, you can be eligible to move on to the next level of that course/subject. I've heard my friends at UC's who have complained that they still need to take the entry level classes even if they received 4's and 5's on the exams. USF definitely rewards its students. USF has departments catered to Nursing, Law, and Business. Also, they have pre-professional programs. So, if you're interested in any of these, definitely consider USF! Be well-rounded and involved, especially in what you have a passion for! Start early! Try to apply for early action for private college and make sure you do your financial aid information ASAP. Don't be afraid to receive help from counselors and make sure you discuss every step you take with your parents. You need to keep them updated!

Even though our tuition is high, even with all the grants, scholarships, and financial aid, I'm getting what I'm paying for. My teachers have done a great job with making sure that we as students know that they're there to answer our questions and help us succeed. They always encourage us going to office hours or give us resources, such as tutoring sessions, The class sizes do pay off because not only do your professors tend to get to know you more, you have the ability to get more attention from them if you need it. The other stuff that we pay for, like our facilities and food and recreational equipment, are pretty well-kept.

I LOVE IT HERE! My classes are only two minutes from my dorm. I have met great people on my floor, as well as those above and below, and in other dorms. For the most part, people are friendly and helpful, especially if you need help with studying for a midterm or test or quiz. When it comes to Glee, you KNOW there's a bunch of people down in your dorm lounge, ready to watch with you! There are so many activities to do. My RA does a great job of posting upcoming events that are on and around our campus (currently, there's a long list of concerts and performances at our school and around the SF area for the next 2-3 months!) I don't play volleyball anymore, but I'm on an intramural dodge-ball team, and I've been going to the gym, spin class, and Zumba almost every day! The location of the campus is perfect for going around the city. Haight is only a few blocks away and, if we don't want to walk, we can just take Muni. Market and Union Square is only a 15-20 minute bus ride. Pretty much, we're in a 20 minute radius of all the great locations in SF. Plus, the recent weather has been, for the most part, perfect! Oh, and if you go to church a lot (or don't), St. Ignatius is only a short distance away!

Academics wise, I feel as if I'm doing fairly well for a Biology major. The classes that I am currently taking are Biology 1, Chemistry 1, Rhetoric 130, and East Asian Civilization. In biology, we move fairly quick through our book, even if my professor likes to be more in-depth and takes his time explaining what is on his Powerpoint slides. What's great about our Biology department is that we print out the Powerpoint lectures and fill-in our notes as we go along. So far, my midterm for this class has been decent. If you really pay attention during lecture and take extra notes, keep up with the readings, along with studying (not cramming), you will do well. In chemistry, my professor also likes to take his time in teaching. I did well on midterm because I had AP Chemistry back in high school, so I have a decent understanding of the concepts that we have gone over so far. Again, paying attention, taking notes, doing the assigned online homework, and studying will serve you well. Biology and Chemistry labs will go by quickly if you know what you're doing (biology labs are about 3 hours and chemistry labs are about 4). My professor for my rhetoric class is doing a great job in easing my class into the assignments. Readings from our books are applied to the lessons in class and writing assignments (first they were reflection papers, and currently we are doing informative speeches). This class is a year-long one! My East Asian class is so interesting with my professor. Even though we read two chapters a week on our own, have Powerpoint lectures, viewpoint and response essays on our discussion boards, and a term paper, what I'm reading is intriguing. Overall, I'm loving what I'm learning because the workload is decent and manageable.

228. this is such a wonderful school. I so much would like to attend as a Nursing student. I am working with all my heart to be accepted here. This is at the very top of my list.

229. This College is great for students, who want to acquire an education in a religious environment, and also for those who wish to live in the beautiful City of San Francisco.

Apply as early as possible. Gather all documents months in advance to meet the deadline.

The life that the University of San francisco extends to its students can assist me in incorporating good ethical changes in my lifestyle. I haven't visited the College, but I have started relishing the prospect of attending the College.

Education is the first rung of the ladder which leads to success. It is not just an asset, but a prerequisite without which one cannot compete in the daily activities of life. I strongly believe that education is an integral part of ones life, for it provides one with knowledge which is imperative for human survival and existence. Futhermore, when education blended within the folds of faith and humanity is extended to the learner, it creates a sense of equality and brother. I have been very much attracted towards activities which have an ethical and religious influence on me. I personally feel that by learning and gaining knowledge in a religious environment has many advantages. Besides increasing my academic skill, it will also enhance my religious insights.

230. If you are the type of student who enjoys the cold climate and reaching out to the community through events and activities, then USF is the campus to consider applying to.

As an interested student as well, I recommend going to as many meetings as possible. I recommend talking to as many students that attend USF to get there prospective and tour around the campus to become familiar with the route.

USF offers a variety of scholarships offered at different values. One of the scholarships I am interested in is there music scholarship. I was told to wait for my letter or acceptance (or rejection) *hopefully, I get in* and what you do is mail in a package that has a CD of a recording of your voice singing at least 4 different language songs. You also need to include a head shot, so the staff can connect the voice to the face. Another thing you include is a letter of reference, en essay of how passionate you are for the arts and music, and lastely an arts resume-so the staff knows what type of a performer they will be working with.

I enjoy the climate of San Francisco,wearing the boots, coats, scarfs, and hats are so much fun! Including the activities USF has to offer for students, there are so many activities and clubs that are created and part of the campus. Knowing how involved of a person I am, I think I will enjoy my stay at USF.

Considering the fact that USF has different types of students from different areas, I feel strong to say that I will definitely learn a lot throughout ethnicity, religion, and culture.

231. This school is great for you if you want a small campus but be in a big city. Also there are so many things to do outside of campus. Also good if you want a small classroom enviornment and it is a Catholic college but they dont force any religion on you.

I absolutely love my school. It is a small campus that is located in the heart of San Francisco. The campus is on a 3 block radius and is so beautiful. It is like a little community in a huge city. This school has division one sports team and lots and lots of clubs and a few sororities and fraternities. The class sizes are really small which is good because all my teachers knew both my first and last name. I loved all my teachers and I am excited to go back next year. My suggestions are to get involved not only in the school but in the city as well.

232. all.

if you're in the sciences, be prepared for hard courses.

233. academically inclined

expensive hills of San Francisco

234. We have to fullfil the requirements of a major, of the general education, which we call "Core," and some elective classes. All of the classes are EXTREMELY accessible. I was never pushed behind because classes were full and I had no way to meet a requirement. I did get a little messed up by waiting to long to take the class required for my Neuroscience minor, and it ended up not fitting into my schedule, so I dropped the minor. The faculty are really, really amazing. They get to know you, and if you're a good student, like I am, they love talking to you and hearing your ideas. They will work one-on-one with you if you have questions. The class sizes for most of my classes have been about 25. I also got really involved with research in a research lab on campus as well as getting involved in an adjunct professor's research off-campus at UCSF nearby. I would have chosen no other school. I'm so glad about my choice.

San Francisco is super expensive, BUT SO WORTH IT! I love living here so much, and I've been exposed to a wide, wide variety of people. I hated living in the residence halls on campus because I hated sharing a room and I hated the idiocy of other students, who would get drunk off their asses and vomit in the hallways or vandalize or be loud/belligerent. So moving off campus was great. The on-campus food is good but expensive. It's all organic and locally produced, and they make you purchase a meal-plan when you live on campus, so you don't have a choice but to pay for it.

I filled out USF's own application, but they also accept the Common Ap. So, I filled out all the information they wanted, which included an essay about how I fit into the USF mission. I applied Early Action by November 15th so as to get considered for a $20,000 scholarship. I received it, and that really made the decision for me. I spoke to some faculty members in Psychology department before making my decision, and they were very welcoming, so that also influenced my decision.

3

2011

235. We have a 128 unit CORE Requirement that includes taking classes in general education subjects. Each semester we are required to go through an academic advising to keep track of what classes we'll need to take. The student to teacher ratio is approximately 14:1 and classes are no larger than 40 students. Average class size is actually 15-25 students. Faculty and staff are accommodating with office hours should any student need extra help. The study abroad programs and immersion programs have some of the best opportunities for students to not only meet academic needs but also experience a different country while externalizing the Jesuit values established through classes.

Having the privilege of being on a full-ride scholarship at this school allows me to recognize the advantages of not worrying about costs. Through hearing about challenges with housing through my peers do I get a better sense of the difficulties people face when financial factors are at play. I personally LOVE living in this city and have made sure to take advantage of every opportunity I can to explore and experience as much as I can, while I can.

I applied using the Common Application.

3

2012

236. USF is a Jesuit school, and as such runs a Liberal Arts oriented core curriculum.  This includes all the usuals (History, Quantitative Science/Math, Social Science, Literature, Philosophy, and Performing Arts,) but we also have to fulfill mandatory Theology, Cultural Diversity (CD), Rhetoric and Composition, and Service Learning (SL) requirements in order to graduate. Class sizes are nice and small...generally between 15 and 35 people, unless you're in general Nursing classes or Intro Psych, Chem, or Bio classes, in which case your class size is still unlikely to break 60. One thing that should be noted is that it's super easy to change your major and minor compared to other schools. Grading varies from prof to prof of course, but generally I've found that they want everyone to do well and are not opposed to giving everyone in the class A's if they deserve them.

Campus is gorgeous, but a little small. Facilities are constantly improving. There's nothing missing on campus that you can't find in the city though, and we're smack in the middle of it. Nice neighborhoods on all sides, though the cost of living is HIGH under almost any circumstances. Considering the fact that San Francisco is a major city, safety levels are good. I've never really felt unsafe.

Pretty standard application process. Common app accepted, no interviews. Worth it to apply early action...your chances are higher. One of the essay options on their USF-specific application is "Topic of your Choice" so you're really not limited as far as essays go. Absolutely take a tour if you can though! I did when I applied, and was so glad I did. One of the best tour guide programs I encountered in my hunt for the right college. Decent amount of financial aid opportunities, especially if you test well on the SAT or ACT or if you are a minority.

3

2012

237. USF has a fairly unique core requirement that includes theology, philosophy and aesthetics.  A lot of core course "double dip" in a sense so that students get credit for their major as well as for their core.  This, in combination with the ability to get the classes that you want, when you want them, allows many students the freedom in their schedule to study abroad or graduate early.  Class sizes at USF are typically around 25 students.  The least I've ever had in a class is 7 and the most is 40.  I love the class sizes because you truly form a relationship with your professors and your peers and classes are typically more discussion-based, so they're more engaging.  Also, USF Professors do an amazing job of integrating The City into the curriculum, so many classes allow you to apply your knowledge or see theory in practice.  Another aspect of academics is accessibility of professors and advisors.  USF students are required to see their advisor each semester before they register to ensure that they are on track or see if they can study abroad/graduate early.

San Francisco is one of the most amazing cities to be a college student in because of the opportunities for learning, experiencing cultures, socializing and professional development.  Our campus is central to the city, so you can get downtown, or to the beach, or to the wharf in a 15 minute bus ride.  Also, our campus is compact, so it is easy to navigate (students can get from class to class in 5-10 minutes) and there is a sense of community from the smaller population.  We are not so small that everyone knows everything about everybody, but not so large that you are just a body in a classroom - there's a nice balance of familiar faces and those yet to meet.  Again, since we're a compact campus, our Public Safety officers can survey the entire campus effectively and response time on any calls is very fast.  The neighborhood we're located in has lots of young families and is a secure environment.  The resources available to students are great - we have an amazing library with a 24-hour silent study area, a large gym free for student use, students receive a bus pass with tuition so they have free reign of the city, we have a welcoming Student Leadership and Engagement office, Gender and Sexualities Center and Intercultural Center, a Learning and Writing Center for tutoring and editing and a Career Services Center to help students find jobs and internships.  USF sincerely works to ensure every students success as evidenced in its resource centers and personalities of professors.  As far as dining, the majority of food on campus is local, organic food made on-site and there are countless options of meals to eat.  And, if a student wants something new, the city is always open!

When I applied, the supplement for USF through the Common Application asked how we would relate to and promote the University's mission statement, which I found fairly unique in looking at other applications.  A lot of emphasis is placed upon the essay since that is student's one time to be able to speak for themselves.  If there are any "gaps" on paper (ie: lower grades or few extracurriculars), the essay is the time to explain why and really provide your voice to essentially argue why you would be a positive addition to the school.

3

2013

238. Basic liberal arts requirements plus ethics, service learning and theology requirements. Advising is held every semester for all students. Classes are an average of 25 students, though most of mine were smaller. I was able to reach a professor within 3 days at all times, usually able to meet in person when needed. Research opportunities were provided for nearly all major; I completed a capstone project where I designed my own research project for my Asian Studies program. I researched Japanese Soft Power in the Video Games Industry.

The main downsides are that the cost of living in San Francisco is very high and that Bon Appetit has a monopoly over food at USF so the prices are very high and the quality is substandard considering its price and the quality of food at competing businesses in San Francisco. The other issue is that there are concerns that the administration does not always put students first, although this concern has been reduced in the past year through an improved effort on the part of the administration to communicate with students before making a decision.The housing services, while somewhat expensive, were competitive in the SF real estate market and reasonably high quality. There was enough housing offered for students. The facilities are mostly well kept. The library was well designed although keeping it open 24 hours a day would be an improvement.It is located in a residential neighborhood where crime is low and safety is not a major concern for most students. Public Safety does a good job keeping campus secure. USF is well integrated into the city through classes, internships, immersion programs, community service and other activities.In general I was very happy at USF and I believe most students enjoy their experience, except the few downsides listed above.

Common ApplicationMerit based scholarship $19500/yearNo interviewEarly Action/Regular ActionSeemed pretty standard when I applied.

4

2011

239. There is a list of core requirements that must be done before you can graduate (things like art, english, math, science, theology, and cultural diversity classes). There are also major required classes. Classes are usually small, and the faculty are very accessible all the time.

Cost of living is pretty expensive ,but food and room is included in the cost for board. There is not much crime on campus, and public safety patrols the dorms and campus all the time. The community seems to appreciate students at USF. The dining on campus is very expensive, but the food is usually good. There are plenty of good restaurants around campus as well, so it's fun to eat at all of those places. The facilities are all resonably new, and USF is working to update their facilities as often as possible.

There is both an early action and a regular action program, and the process entails filling out the normal application and the USF supplement. The entire application consists of one essay total.

1

2014

240. Challenging

Great

Fair

3

2013

241. Academics is very good because the main reason I decided to attend to this school because of the class sizes. They are very small and the professors are very nice if you have any question during the class or outside the class. Academic advising as well is very useful because they are able to tell you or assist you in any way or form of what classes to take throughout the years you attend the University. The study aboard opportunities are very resourceful because we have a department for each activity or organization we have in the school.

The quality of life at the school is pretty expensive but overall is good. People in the facilities are very nice and helpful if you are having diffuclut time adjusting to living in San Francisco. Public Safety is very resourceful as well because if you have any problems or accomendatiion they are very helpful.

The admission process is self- explanatory. Everything you need to know to apply for the school is online. The question are not hard as well. The application process is pretty smooth because you are able to check your application status on line to make sure everything is completed in your application. If you are a student that applies for early action there are opportunities for you to receive scholarship that could round to large amounts. Financial aid as well is very helpful for those who are applying with low income.

2

2013

242. core classes- literature, history, theology, science study abroad- over 10 countriescompetitive grading

cost of living expensive, safe & exciting neighborhood, nice facilities

essay, early & regular decision, common application, scholarships

4

2012

243. 40 credits are the core requirements and about 44 is the major requirements, the rest are electives. The workload is manageable some classes were more competitive than others. Some teachers were exceptional. others did not belong there. I wish I had better teachers throughout my years here. It was usually easy to get a class I wanted.

Fantastic! People are down to earth, happy, well rounded, passionate, etc.

The application question was pertaining to the University mission. I applied and was accepted early action. The Early action deadline is November 15. Many financial aid and scholarship opportunities



2010

244. Very good academic advising.  Small class sizes.

Housing is expensive but can be nice.  I love the campus and surrounding neighborhood.  I feel relatively safe.

I completed the Common application with Early Action.  There was a Supplemental application with essay questions.  I did FASFA for financial aid.

3

2012

245. Core classes - they are very diverse and exciting, insightful and inspiringmajor degree requirements- practical and challenging academic advising - accessible by email and drop in hours. they are friendly and helpful.class sizes - about 25:1 student:teacher proportion. sometimes less, sometimes more, depending on the type of lecture/lab classesprofessor accessibility - same with advising research opportunities - depending on the major, there are a lot of opportunities. career fairs, department bulletin boards are available year round competitiveness - everyone is always striving for the best grades and using the resources as much as possible grading - fair notable faculty - there are a couple every year. study abroad opportunities - plenty workload - considered high (for nursing students compared to other majors)



essay, recommendation letters and  application forms are neededearly decision is practiced common app is also used they provide financial aids and scholarship

2

2012

246. service learning requirement, smaller class sizes, research opportunities



application, essay, early action, Common App, transcripts, letter of reccomendation



2010

247. small classesvery accessible professorsfairly competitivetough gradinggpa based on grade and a + or - scale. i.e. A = 4.0, A- = 3.7tremendous study abroad programsfaculty has varied, valuable experience in the fieldgood academic advisingvairous CORE classes: theology, philosophy, rhetoric and composition, math/qualitative science, lab science, ethics, social science, history, fine arts, public speaking, literature, cultural diversity, and service learning

average housinghigh cost of livingexciting campusnecessary facilities availablegood libraryabove average dininggood, safe neighborhoodgood safety, some crimevery happy

Common application and two simple supplemental essaysearly admission is availablethe length of time it takes for the school to let us know about admission is very quicklyvery good financial aidsome scholarship available

1

2013

248. The academics at USF I feel like are preparing for a progressive future in my chosen career. The staff are always available for help. I think the workload is sufficient. Though for competitiveness I feel as if the school is very  diverse culturally, but  the students here are either very intellectual or oblivious to the world around them.



Complete either online application or Common app and if accepted apply for financial aid and housing.

1

2013

249. 



interviews, early action and regular decision, common ap, etc.LOTS of FINANCIAL AID available to 65%-80% of the students.Most students working on campus have Federal Work Study.

2

2012

250. ge's include theology, philosophy, and ethics amongst other major requirements

housing and food options are TOO EXPENSIVE! sanctions and fines by the school is unfair and overpriced.

common application.

1

2013

251. I learned a lot about Ecuadorian culture, Spanish, public transportation, racial relations and how they relate to socioeconomic status, the complexity of machismo, the huge wealthy disparity, the importance of family and friends over rigidity (time, schedules, individualism), and a lot about myself. I gained confidence in my ability to navigate a big city by myself and talk to people (in Spanish!); I learned that wherever I go, people will be the most important part of my life. 
My classes at USFQ were not as intense as the ones at my home university, but I appreciated that since I didn't want academics to take away from traveling, getting to know people, and soaking up as much of Ecuador as I could.


I absolutely loved living with a host family. I learned so much about the culture just by being there and it improved my Spanish immensely. My host mother is one of my favorite people ever. It was really comforting to have a place that I called home and even someone who let me call her mamá.

Homemade Ecuadorian food can't be beat. Everything in my home was made fresh daily. A typical breakfast consists of eggs, fresh fruit, bread, juice and/or coffee. Lunch is soup, rice, meat, and vegetables. And dinner is similar to lunch. Nothing is spicy, but it is flavorful.

As much as I tried, I will never be confused for a local (blonde eyes, blue hair, and not completely fluent), so I had to give up the hope that I would pass as a local. However, people were very kind to me and interested about why I was in Ecuador. Living with a host family and taking classes with other Ecuadorians is really helpful if you're hoping to integrate yourself with the culture. And once you make one friend, they introduce you to their social circle, so that's really helpful!

I never had any problems serious enough to go to a hospital, but I know if I did, my director would have been easy to contact. I was a little sensitive to the change in food, but my host mother took excellent care of me and insisted on making a special simple soup (kind of like chicken noodle) for me to help my upset stomach every time I got sick.

I lived in a lower-middle class neighborhood, so I was in a little of a more dangerous area than others in my program. However, a lot of safety has to do with choices you make. For example, I wouldn't ride the bus past 7 PM; I called legitimate, trusted taxi services rather than flagging one down; and I tried to walk with other people at night. You do have to be careful on buses (they'll teach you how to hold your bags in front of you) and in general just to look confident all the time even if you're lost.Two people in my program were pick-pocketed but it was done without them noticing it (so no violent crimes occurred.) Overall, I don't think Quito is any more dangerous than any other big city.

It was quite easy for me to live on a student's budget. If you eat local food, you save quite a bit of money (lunches can be about $3-5). If you choose to get ice cream often (which I would highly recommend) and go out at night, then you may spend a bit more. Still, I spent less abroad than I typically do.

Our directors used both Spanish and English, and they allowed us to use both as well. We'd usually start a small group talk in Spanish, but if it got more complex and we were struggling to convey our thoughts because of a lack of vocabulary skills, they'd continue speaking in Spanish but allow us to use English. We could choose to speak Spanish amongst ourselves, but we often got impatient and resorted to English when we were hanging out.
If you are very determined, you can stick with Spanish! It also helps to hang out with Ecuadorian friends and tell them not to speak English to you.
252. Understanding of other cultures, stepping way outside my comfort zone, making lifelong friends and learning a new language. Definitely worth it!

The director was amazing! We had many many excursions that were made so much better by his organization and connections in the country.

The host family matches were great. I have to say it was my favorite part of the experience.

They eat a lot of starches in Ecuador! However food is very cheap so it's very easy to find or make your own meals.

There were so many opportunities to make friends and get involved, both through random friends, the school, and my host family's connections. My host family gave me such an authentic taste of Ecuadorian culture and was very open to having me involved in their lives.


We did have a couple incidents in our group, as well as in other American groups at USFQ. However, these were rare exceptions, and almost always involve going against safety guidelines, such as walking around alone and intoxicated at night. Even so, petty crime is common, and many in my group had been pick pocketed at some point on the buses. You just have to watch your stuff - I never had any problems.

Food is very cheap here! The only expensive things are electronics and anything brand name that's imported, but those are easily avoided.

They encouraged you, but really it all comes down to you. They promote making a Spanish pledge for the duration, but no one in our group stuck with it. That's one of my regrets.
253. I had never been abroad (never even been in a plane!) until I went to Ecuador. That being said, the BCA program in Quito was the perfect program for me because it was structured enough that I didn't feel like I was just being left in another country to fend for myself. Yet being in the program didn't hinder me at all from exploring on my own and even pushed me to get outside of my comfort zone, which as a result made me much more confident and independent.
The BCA program requires its students to do an end of the year "creative journal project". This is a great way to capture what each student learned throughout the semester and to be able to present it in a unique and personal way. I wrote a book about the people I had encountered throughout the semester, and the impact that had on me. The best way I can explain what I gained most from my semester abroad is by sharing the preface I wrote for the book....
"I have met many different individuals during my study abroad experience in Ecuador. This book is really in honor of the many people whose faces who are not pictured…the people I have met on the buses (the hotel environmentalist Santiago, the guitarist, the teacher María, the proud mother and her newborn, the flirtatious high schooler, the bartender, just to name a few…), the people I pass everyday on the street but whose names I will still never know, the countless taxi drivers (some who have entertained me and those who have swindled me), the waiters and waitresses at restaurants I have discovered here (Nicholas from Romolo e Remo, you are beautiful and I will never forget you!), the little girl on the night bus on the way back from Cuenca, who quizzed Emiliano and I on how to translate the names of different body parts into English, the middle-aged couple that took walks in the park while I did my early morning runs, the students in my university classes, the hostel owners eager to give us lodging, the dogs I passed each morning on my way to the bus station, the Texan who loves old karate sitcoms and vegetarian food, the German passerbys trying to find some good waves in Canoa, the couple from Rio Muchacho and the coordinator Kevin whom we all adore, the artisan guitar/flute maker and his family, the community members from South Quito we spent an afternoon getting to know, the tour guides from our many BCA expeditions, the little kids who helped us build a fire one cold night on an andinismo trip, the members of the Mennonite church I met one Sunday morning, the Swiss mountaineer (an old friend of the ecuafamily), the friends of friends, the good the bad and the too soon to tell …all the people who I have encountered here but who can only remain in my memory.
And then there are the people who you will see in this book, some whom I have come to know better than others. I think God places a lot of people in our lives but we don’t always make the effort to get to know them. We meet people by chance but really we make that chance worthwhile when we take the time (even if it’s only 5 minutes) to find out who they are. Sometimes we only meet them once, and sometimes they circle back again (and again) to become a part of our life experience. Yet too often we avert our eyes, pull out our cellphones, and live in the bubble of relationships we have created for ourselves. There is so much variety and vibrancy of humanity in this world waiting to be unearthed, if only we take the chance to encounter it."
I guarantee that you will meet some amazing people if you study abroad. I met many characters in Ecuador, those that inspired me and those that challenged me and tested my limits, and it was through those relationships that left me feel changed for the better by the end of the semester. 
My best educational experiences were actually found outside of the University. I learned so much from just living in the language through my day-to-day interactions with my host-family and through my internship at a non-profit organization CENIT in Quito. However, although I feel that I personally learned more outside of the classroom, the University of San Francisco offers a wide variety of courses that accommodate students with varying levels of Spanish proficiency.

The BCA Quito administration was wonderful! Daniel Bryan, the head coordinator, has done amazing things for this program. His connections with other organizations and people in Quito makes program excursions very unique and authentic, allowing students to have the fullest of cultural experiences. Martha Perez, the assistant director, was essentially our step-in mom during the semester, who took care of any conflicts within our host family situations and was very attentive to all of the BCA students' needs. Lastly, Miguel Andres Guerra was our other assistant director, and was largely in charge of coordinating student internships and volunteer opportunities. He was an invaluable resource to the BCA students in this respect. Although not all of these hard-working individuals will be returning to the program site next year, you can be sure that their legacy will leave a very well organized program that will continue to give students an amazing study abroad experience.

I loved my host-family! I lived with my "ecuamom" on the second floor of a house, but also enjoyed the company of my extended family who lived in the rest of the house (aunt/uncle, cousins and second cousins, another international student, and our two dogs!). I had my own room and bathroom, which gave me all of the privacy I needed, but what was even better was being able to live with so many family members - it was a very warm, fun, and comforting environment. My Spanish also improved immensely through my daily interactions with the family.

Admittedly, I was disappointed at first with Ecuadorian cuisine. I am a person who delights in spicy, flavorful foods...anything that packs a punch! I would describe Ecuadorian food as having a more humble, earthy flavor. You will eat LOTS of rice. However, the variety of produce South America offers is truly incredible. I ate so many interesting (and delicious!) fruits while in Ecuador! And with that comes "batidos", delicious fruit juices! My favorite culinary experience while in Ecuador was eating "ceviche," a favorite coastal soup we would eat at the beach (think gazpacho with shrimp!). Lastly, the food prices in Ecuador are phenomenally low, making it an excellent option for college students on a budget. One of the definite advantages about being in the BCA program is that they use part of your tuition that you pay to your home university for a "food allowance" which more than covers your lunch meals/snacks all semester.

I felt very well integrated in the culture here. This was largely due to my time spent with my host-family, my classes at the University, and my internship. However, something I think that is most special about the BCA program is its commitment to the social and cultural integration of its students. Our group excursions allowed us to have encounters with the realest of people...local artisans, environmental activists, musicians, restaurant and hostel owners, Amazonian researchers...just to name a few!

I was very fortunate while in Ecuador in that I encountered minimal health concerns. BCA's health section of the pre-semester orientation was super helpful for the students (what foods to avoid, diarrhea is normal and even expected at the beginning, who to contact if you get sick or hurt, etc.). There is a health clinic at the university that is available to students' needs. This clinic is also specially helpful for getting necessary shots for certain excursions (safe and far less expensive than in the States!), such as the yellow fever shot for students wishing to visit the Tiputini Biodiversity Station in the Amazon.
As far as the local health care system goes, I had one trip to emergency care due to an extreme eye irritation, and was impressed with the care I received...fast, professional, and INEXPENSIVE. However, I hear that this can vary depending on the hospital.

Like any large city, Quito has definite safety risks. These risks, however, are minimalized thanks to a safety orientation with the BCA directors following students' arrival. Students are advised not to be out past 7PM in certain areas and are instructed upon how to ride public transportation and avoid petty theft/other violence. Due to the machismo present in Ecuador, female students are also given safety advice in regards to how to respond to catcalls and other uncomfortable situations.
Food safety should not be a serious concern for prospective students to the program, as host-families are specifically instructed how to prepare food/water so that it is safe for students to eat and drink.

It was very easy for me to live on a student's budget. Traveling around Ecuador is very economical...transportation, lodging, and food are all pretty cheap. You could have an awesome weekend trip for less than $30!
The BCA program gives each student an allowance (comes out of tuition/program costs) at the beginning of each month. One part of the allowance is for lunch (approximately $120, more than enough!) and the other part is for transportation needs, usually to and from school (approximately $20). These are what the allowances are designated for, however students often find that they do not need all of the allowance to cover these expenses, and will often use the allowance for other personal costs (travel, souvenirs, etc.). The BCA program also reimburses students for "cultural experiences" up to a certain amount (museums, concerts, a soccer game, etc.)

The BCA program encourages its students to speak Spanish, especially through the opportunity offered to students to take a "Spanish pledge". Fall semester students are also required to take a pre-semester Spanish and culture course for three weeks before beginning classes in August.
254. I have become better at going with the flow, I'm now more outgoing, and learning how to live in another culture has made me realize many things about my own (that I have one, for example). After being in Ecuador and seeing social workers at my internship, I have begun thinking seriously about social work, either international social work or working with immigrants in the US. 
Expectations were definitely lower at the Universidad San Francisco than my home school, but that was fine, and I think ideal in a way because it lets you be more free to get involved with other things like volunteering, clubs, making friends. The grading system is A-F, with no +/-.

Everything about my program was wonderful. There were other study abroad programs at my university, and students often complained about those, but I'm pretty sure everyone on my program was very content with it. It's about a month longer than most programs with our pre-semester class, it's relatively cheap, and that price includes all the trips (6 days in the Galapagos, 5 days in the Amazon, 2 days in Otavalo, 4 days on the coast, plus day trips) and all meals. We also get $4 per day for lunch, which is great when lunches cost $1-2. They also give us a little money for taxis and phones each month. Our program had 20 kids, which was a nice size. Our directors are very knowledgeable--the main director has spent 10 years in Ecuador and the assistant is Ecuadorian.

I loved my family. I was definitely treated as a family member. The neighborhood was nice--middle class for the most part, and located in Northern Quito. It was about an hour from school by bus and a $3 taxi ride from the Mariscal, where most of the bars and clubs are.

Expect a lot of white rice, white bread, and fried things. You'll probably gain weight. But also delicious fresh fruits and juices!



The program covers these very extensively in orientation.



I lived with a host family, so by default I spoke Spanish for a good portion of each day. Everyone in the program has to live with a host family. Most people at the university did know English, but outside the university English was much less common.
255. I learned so much about myself as an individual, about Latin American history and culture, and about working in development. Definitely worthwhile. 
The BCA program is fantastic. It's the perfect combination of group scheduled activities, cultural exploration, and guidance on independent volunteering and travel. I would definitely recommend doing a full academic year; you won't want to leave!

The entire team was fantastic. They had me placed in a volunteer situation within my first week, which later developed into an internship. Daniel, Miguel Andres, and Martha were all knowledgeable about Ecuadorian culture, but still willing to help out timid gringos! I had to switch host families, but they were so understanding and always available to help.

Host family living can be a bit tough, but it is a worthwhile experience. As a very introverted person, it was very difficult to adjust to Ecuadorian family routines. That said, it was a great for cultural understanding and getting a real taste of Ecuador. I lived in housing for the organization I was volunteering with second semester, which was amazing beyond belief. We were right in the middle of Quito's historical center. BCA was very flexible with the accommodations.

Get used to rice! The host families try to accommodate gringo tastes (some better than others). My experience was personally awesome - my host brother was in chef school and my mom was an excellent cook! The cuisine of Ecuador itself is varied. Be sure to try filleted fish if you visit the Oriente on your own.

My volunteering experience was great for integration. I don't feel that I got a lot of it at the host university, but my internship and host family more than made up for it.

You will need a yellow fever vaccine for one of the excursions. However, it is available from the university for about $15 - don't worry about getting it in the U.S.

I lived in a more dangerous neighborhood during the second semester, but the safety allowance was more than enough to get me taxis whenever I needed them. Use commonsense and avoid dangerous areas, and you will be good to go.The worst that happened to me was my shoes were stolen off the beach. I have friends with more scary experiences, but I luckily managed to avoid any mishaps. In general: don't carry a big bag around, be extra careful in coastal areas, and always take a taxi when in doubt. For the ladies, I found I was much more comfortable when walking with a male friend at night, even if he wasn't Ecuadorian.

Quito is so inexpensive, and BCA gives you a stipend at the beginning of every month!

256. Absolutely worthwhile. It really help me put things into perspective and refine some goals. I learned a lot about Latin American history and social issues as well about the Ecuadorian identity.
I enrolled in 6 upper-division content courses (business, economics and anthropology) at the local university Universidad San Francisco de Quito (USFQ) with other Ecuadorian students, all in Spanish. Because most other BCA students on my program choose to take language courses with other foreigners, I had more of an intense academic experience. At times, I found the classes quite difficult, mostly because of the language barrier. I especially struggled with two courses in particular, a business operations management course and intermediate macro-economics. I think that I learned a lot, but got less out of my abroad experience than I could have because I spent so much time studying and in class. Additionally, I found USFQ itself to be very frustrating at times- both its professors and administration.

BCA Quito really does a stellar job. There were only minor things that I would change and Martha, Daniel (program director), and Miguel Andres were all very helpful and really wanted to help us succeed. BCA really enriched my experience in Ecuador and made it a positive one out of what could have been incredibly frustrating if I had just been interacting with the university -USFQ.

I loved my host family. BCA does a great job at placing students with experienced host families who really are interested in forming relationships with their students, not just having a monetary exchange for lodging. Only one student ended up changing families and BCA dealt with the issue extremely quickly and the student ended up very happy with her second family.

I loved my EcuaMama's cooking. I'm vegan, but I didn't have any problems with this while I was in Ecuador. My host mom cooked vegan Ecuadorian food for me and when I was with BCA on its numerous excursions, the program staff always, always made sure that the restaurant or place where we would be eating had vegetarian and vegan food for us vegans and vegetarians. They were really great at accommodating this!!

I learned a lot of Spanish, and because I took my classes exclusively with other Ecuadorians, I met a number of Ecuadorian students and felt like a member of the university. I also lived with an Ecuadorian host family. However, despite these things, I don't feel that I was particularly "integrated" into Ecuadorian culture - but I'm really not sure how possible I believe this really is during only 4-5 months. And I know I was probably much more integrated than other BCA students who weren't taking courses with Ecuadorians and who hung out much more often with the other foreign students. BCA does do its best however to try and help us along the path to integration.

I had no health issues personally, but based on other BCA students' experiences, I know BCA Quito is very responsive and professional about helping students when they have health issues. A program staff member helped a friend at the ER when she was sick and a couple of the BCA staff members took one girl who had a more long term health problem to many, many doctors appointments. I can't comment, however, on the local healthcare system, as I didn't use it at all.

Quito is a big city. As such, it is not particularly safe, inherently. Many students were pickpocketed (my cellphone was taken from my pocket as I got on a crowed tram-bus), but we were warned about this at orientation and advised not to keep things in pockets. It is also not safe to walk around the city alone at night. However, Quito is perfectly safe if you make smart choices, take taxis at night, and are always mindful of your belongings. BCA advises its students about these things during orientation and gives a monthly transportation stipend so we don't skimp on getting taxis late at night. It's all about being aware and not making bad choices (ex. do not walk through parks at night, ever).

Quito is not a very expensive place to live. Food is fairly cheap and clothing is the only thing that is as or more expensive as in the States. BCA gives a monthly food allowance for lunches and all food during excursions and we get breakfasts and dinners from our host families, so essentially the cost of all food but snacks is included in the program fee.

We had a 3-week Spanish language pre-semester course and the program staff always encouraged us to speak in Spanish and over the course of the semester used more and more Spanish with us (in making announcements, during excursions, etc) until just about everything was in Spanish. However, many - almost everyone - students only spoke English among each other and I think this really lessened the amount of Spanish some people learned. Because I was in all Spanish courses, I was forced to learn and certainly did, but I know some others only really used it with their host families and in their language classes that didn't require full immersion. I feel BCA could make this more of a language immersion program, but perhaps that is not the principle goal. Additionally, some sort of language exchange partner matching program with Ecuadorians to help us meet others and practice Spanish would have been really useful (though USFQ is trying to start a program like this).
257. yes
The university itself cannot compare to Trinity in terms of the way classes are taught and what you as a student are expected to do, but the BCA program was fantastic. We had a very informative director who could answer any and all of your questions (or tell you where to find the answers) about Ecuador, the people, the culture, how to get around, etc. The program also took us on several small trips around the country as well as the Galapagos islands and the Amazon, so in that respect, it was very educational and I found this alone to be very rewarding.




All of our 20 days in total (I think) worth of travelling with the program were absolutely fantastic.




258. Cons: expensive city to live
Pros: free tuition
Assist university students enrolling, class selection and counsel students on payment of tuition options along with financial aid options.Reconciliation of travel accounts.  Supervised student workers.


259. Cons: Commute (personally), parking & expensive (eg. food)
Pros: Well educated and passionate faculity and students who truly want to Change the World from HERE!
A place of employment where I can feel comfortable being my unique self.  I am surrounded by like-minded people: deep thinking and well educated individuals who are innovate and passionate change agents.  As USF Clinical Faculty, this position has made a pevital change in my personal and professional life. I have spent many years identifying myself through higher education, professional advances and obtaining and maintaining comfortable finacial stability.  Do not get me wrong, I still hold true to that.  Just something was missing, I felt I was solely surviving and not thriving.  I am missing – more... a vital part of who I am; satifing my soul's desires; to make a mark in this world; to move mountains and to make a difference.  Thus, working and educating during a time technology in healthcare is prominent and ever advancing is quite fulfilling.  An environment where nurturing colleagues and students,  who are welcomed and cherished.  Educating and supporting nursing students, as they take their first step into the "real" world of nursing.  My soul was being filled. This soul satisfaction is humbling, rewarding and forever priceless.In general:I am supported by senior staff and upper administative.I am respected as a staff member of USF's BSN Program.I have been given great autonomy in my work.There are many opportunites to help and give back. – less


260. Cons: occasional high stress situations during events
Pros: great co-workers, good hours
Worked with a great team of people who were able to work around my schedule during school. My coworkers were very helpful and I was able to learn all of the event management basics.


261. Cons: none I can think of!
Pros: great benefits.
Awesome place to work, a lot to learn, new things learned every day. Management is always available and there to help you with anything you need. Environment is nice and social. Great office equipment available for staff. Near by coffee shops, grocery stores.


262. Cons: Not much room for advancement.
Pros: Feel of a small community with big ideas.
USF is a great place to start for any student. The staff and management are supportive. However, this is not a place for advancement. Most of the staff are dedicated to the school and its mission, so it leaves little room for new positions.


263. Great experience. Many students should try to find on campus jobs, it is a great learning experience that prepares you for the real world.


264. It is wonderful to work with amazing people that genuinely care about everyone's opinions. I learned a lot in how to function dropbox and to use their functional use printers that can scan, fax, and print. It was great to be apart of their team and I can't wait until next school year to be hired again.


265. Cons: bad wages; terrible management (depending on department); union membership mandatory
Pros: good benefits
**This review strictly relates to administrative jobs, NOT academic and/or professorial jobs**Working hours are standard (8:30am to 5pm) but the work culture/life balance is there. One can leave the office at the office. The work is generally unchallenging and one must seek avenues of growth and learning if they wish to expand knowledge. The opportunities for this are there, one needs to identify them though (ie.: don't expect management to give it to you).Management: This varies enormously across divisions and departments. Generally, most managers are supportive and understanding, but do little – more... to challenge growth or allow for additional learning. Avoid some departments entirely. This would absolutely include the Registrar's office and One Stop/Financial Aid, as well as Undergrad Admissions in general (Admissions can go either way) and in general the division they fall under, which is Academic and Enrollment Services (AES). These departments are defined by inept management and micromanagement styles in addition to non-advancement positions. Also, these offices are generally inflexible and hostile. Employment in other divisions/department other than AES is highly recommended.Base Pay/Job Security/Benefits: very low pay compared to same jobs in other universities (including community colleges) in and around the Bay. Job security is rock-solid; it's nearly impossible to get fired. Although, it can happen. However, people are usually pressured out due to office toxicity and hostility. The union one must usually pay dues for/be a member of is abusive and ignorant to worker concerns; they do not press management on change; do nothing but protect the inept workers who do need to go. Benefits (non-monetary wages) are outstanding though. Excellent health coverage and retirement benefits. Understand though that these benefits can (and do) change as the Union and it's stewards are largely inept at negotiation and long-term outlook, etc...Co-workers: some the absolute finest people and some (very few) of the worst. Generally, they are incredibly supportive. If you're in a terrible department or division they can make or break it. – less


266. 
Pros: i love working with kids
I was a Camp counselor for school age children 10-13. It was a good camp and I love teaching kids. I'm glad that I was able to practice my christian faith and help kids learn bible studies throughout the summer.


267. Cons: long hours, understaffed and inadequate operational funds
Pros: students, colleagues, campus climate and benefits
Typical days revolved around strengthening the educational climate for the K-12 population. Sometimes we were dealing with state and city issues and other times the US Department of Education funding and political matters. The afternoons, weekends and summers were all about the students we served. I had the opportunity to learn organizational and management skills, conflict mediation, data collection input and analysis, as well as, STEM programming. My Director was my biggest supporter and vested mentor. My immediate co-workers, were both my advisors and supportive family. The hardest part of the job was fighting for continued funding, working 13 to 16 hour days during grant writing, college application and Financial Aid season. Being with the students is the highlight of the job. Helping them to prepare for college, open their eyes to the career possibilities in STEM and ultimately enrolled into college is the greatest feeling of accomplishment for students, staff and parents.


268. My teaching position came hand-in-hand with my enrollment as a graduate student with the chemistry department. The pay is ridiculously low, and despite my tuition being covered, and being employed by USF, I still had to take out a large loan just to pay for rent in the expensive city that is San Francisco.The atmosphere is good, fellow students are great, and professors are helpful. I've learned a lot of different teaching techniques working here, and have been exposed to over 60+ different types of general chemistry labs at this point.


269. Working at USF for a professor was a great way to earn some extra money while in school and getting some additional face time in with professors.


270. Everyone is very helpful and fun to work with.Great way to gain experience.


271. A lot of the staff are friendly and professional, I often worked with minimal supervision


272. Cons: no breaks
Pros: can study at work.
This being a position for college students, the ability to study while working was the best part of the job.A typical shift is either 2 hours in the daytime or 3 hours at night. On shift, one registered incoming guests of residents, answered the phone and directed calls, helped residents with their mail and packages and any facility issues they might have. One was also responsible for certain actions in the event of a fire, fire drill, or earthquake.I learned to handle irate residents, to call for help when I needed to, to multi-task and to answer phones.Management was very supportive if a little lackadaisical about scheduling.My co-workers were timely and responsible. It being a job where only one person is working at a time, we didn't interact much at work.The hardest part of the job was staying awake at 3:35 in the morning.The most enjoyable part was seeing my fellow students everyday.


273. I have learned so much from my experience at University of San Francisco! My strength in research and program coordination comes from the many hats that I wore during the three years that I spent working at USF. Accountability is the key to success here. My co-workers were my family. The hardest part my job was leaving it because I had to move to Seattle.


274. I was able to learn a lot from working with my boss. She allowed me to take on many roles as a Office Assistant, which will help me in my future. My main job was providing reception duties, but was not limited to that. I helped transform the inventory room, where my boss and I reorganized it from scratch.


275. Cons: significant internal change
Pros: university
THE UNIVERSITY IS UNDERGOING A TRANSFORMATION TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE WITH OTHER ORGANIZATIONS. THEREFORE, THERE ARE NEW PROCESSES, PEOPLE AND TECHNOLOGY INTRODUCED.


276. I enjoed working there. The stuff members were very helpful and willing to teach. The hardest part was able to mange multitasking but throughout time I managed to do it.


277. Cons: really busy

Has a really good team just takes time to learn the work. It is a really busy place


278. • Expertise using STATA/E-views to run regression analysis, open datasets, investigate the contents of datasets, consolidate results into summaries, charts, graphs, and tables, and produce academic papers and professional presentations on wide range of economic issues.• Proved ability to deal with a wide range of individuals, including high-net-worth investors and institutional money manager, in a stressful and time-sensitive environment• Strong team dynamic and team building skills. Recognized by coworkers as a house man due to readiness to help others and ability and dedication to work with colleagues


279. 
                    The website makes USF come off as totally sketchy. There is a huge emphasis on location! Why would that be the first thing listed? I know USF used to be St. Ingnatius and is a Jesuit college, which is normally good for academics. Is the website representative of the college itself or is it just terrible marketing?                

280. 
                            USF isn't sketchy.  They recently redesigned their website, and there is a lot of emphasis on the university being located in a desirable city.  Presumably they did some marketing research that indicated the location of the campus is a major selling point to prospective students.  Nothing sketchy about that, just promoting one of their strong suits.  It's a Jesuit university that's been around for a long time and has a solid academic reputation.                        

281. 
                            I guess so, I was just expecting something more sober. I am a local, so it seemed odd to me. I think they must looking for out of state and international students.                        

282. 
                    Why isn't this school more popular?

I don't know much about it, but appartently it has great professors, pretty small classes, good scholarships, and an awesome location--so why hadn't I heard of it until an hour ago?

It's 3000 miles away from me so I can't visit, and I have found almost no info about it online, but it seems like a cool place so I'm thinking of applying...so any info is greatly appreciated!


thanks!                

283. 
                            USF has a great location right in the heart of the city, and the campus (hike up the steps to Lone Mountain) is beautiful. The views are absolutely incredible! I met some students and professors and administrators on my visits, and I was impressed with all of them. I did hear that a few students are not highly qualified, and some courses not particularly challenging. They have some large guaranteed scholarships with certain test scores + GPA, but they do not guarantee to meet financial need and are known to "gap" students. A special honors program is offered to "University Scholars" that offers special seminars, outings (paid for by USF) and more challenging courses.

Good luck!                        

284. 
                            tocollege,

Thanks a lot for the info, it's sounding better and better! Do you happen to know anything about the specific requirements+size of these guaranteed scholarships?                        

285. 
                            Yep! Here you go:

"Are there merit scholarships? What are University Scholars?
The University Scholars program is awarded to students who apply through Early Action (The Early Action application Deadline is November 15), who have a minimum grade point average of 3.8 as calculated by the USF Office of Admission, and a minimum combined SAT test score of 1,320, or a minimum ACT test score of 30. The University Scholars program pays $19,500 a year for eight semesters of undergraduate study, provided the student maintains at least a 3.25 grade point average at USF. " University of San Francisco (USF) - FAQ

You have to apply by November 15th to be considered. (They let me know I was accepted and had the scholarship within 5 days - which was fun because it really helps ease the anxiety of waiting for acceptances to KNOW you have one in your pocket!)

***The SAT score is Math + CR reading only!!!                        

286. 
                            I'm thinking its religious affiliation holds it back. I would be VERY interested if not for that, SF is my favorite city.                        

287. 
                            I visited four times, and I asked that question of students, admissions reps, and faculty. They said about 50% of the students are Catholic. (The students I talked to didn't happen to be Catholic, and they did not feel it was a problem.) It seemed to me (based ONLY on my few visits) to have a liberal atmosphere (like the city it is in). It is run by the Jesuits, who I have always understood to be VERY liberal. Disclaimer: I am Catholic, so maybe it didn't concern me as much as it might a non-Catholic.

There is a Religious Studies requirement, but the course offerings cover nearly every religion you can think of - there is no requirement to study any particular religion, it is your choice.

Additional disclaimer: I really liked this university and it was among my final contenders, but ultimately I chose to attend another university.                        

288. 
                            Its one of the 28 Jesuit Schools in the country.   Santa Clara is higher ranking and USF is in San Francisco which does not appeal to everyone.

But its a fine school.

I believe Bill Russell is a graduate of USF back in their haydays of Basketball fame.                        

289. 
                            If you like SF, why don't you try San Francisco State University?
SFSU has a better alumni network and it's much more popular than USF. Also it's cheaper, fyi.                        

290. 
                            2008_applicant: SFSU doesn't have such a great academic reputation. In CA, where I live, it's considered to be one of the schools you apply to just in case you get rejected from CSULB and SDSU.

EDIT: Just from what I've heard. So I don't mean to offend.                        

291. 
                            IMO, USF is a decent school for the Bay Area, but it doesn't really have any recognition outside of the Bay Area.  Moreover, it is very expensive and is in one of the most expensive cities in the country.  I only see a reason to go there if you must live in SF for some reason and you want to go to a school with the religious affiliation.

In most cases, the best-known state school in your area will certainly be a better bargain and better in academics and reputation.                        

292. 
                            In most cases, the best-known state school in your area will certainly be a better bargain and better in academics and reputation.   Tranandy.

Hmm.....Perhaps you want to clarify that for us.    I dont think that the Jesuits suffer from a bad reputation or poor academics.    USF is a fine school.

It isnt cheap.    Private schools are not cheap.     They do give great financial aid and scholarships.                        

293. 
                            I agree with nocousin. Private schools are not cheap, and USF is not more expensive than many others in California. The estimated cost of attendance on my award letter was about $48,000 - approximately the same as the other five private universities to which I applied.                        

294. 
                            I used to live right across the street from USF (Cole/Fulton). It is a gorgeous campus and St. Ignatius is a beautiful Cathedral. My former girlfriend was a student there and loved the education she received from the Jesuits.                        

295. 
                            Jesuit education is great. Very strong supportive environment. Focused on liberal arts and strong reputation for pre-professonal.

I would imagine USF isn't one of the top Jesuit universities because the number of options available to California students.                        

296. 
                            CalBear2009: You call USF's campus "gorgeous". I would agree you if you called that "cute", but a "gorgeous" campus should be a little "bigger", right?

It's a tiny campus, and consists of two separate sections, which aren't connected to each other, as there is a block in the middle of them. (On the other hand, I also admire the Cathedral's beauty. It is really gorgeous!)

Still, I agree with those saying that USF deserves a better ranking. I also heard that the quality of that school was outstanding. What I was telling that, SFSU should be a better pick than USF, since its reputation is better and the alumni network is much more higher than USF, when you think about the whole US. In this respect, I totally agree with Tranandy. Look at her/his post, and see what I was talking about.                        

297. 
@tocollege i know this post was about 7 years ago, but do you think those stats are still pretty valid today? also, is the 3.8 gpa weighted or unweighted? thank you!                         

298. 
                    Please post your stats/ethnicity/major/and everything that helped you get in. What were your essays about/ did you show interest? What do you like about USF? Where else did you get in? Will you attend?
This will help many of us who love USF or those who won't be admitted.
thanks :) 

299. 
                            I am still waiting but I will post when I hear back.                        

300. 
Accepted:

I'm gonna list anything that I think would have affected the decision.

Gender: Male
Ethnicity: Korean
Major: Nursing
GPA: 3.63 (weighted)
School API: 884 (Foothill High School, Pleasanton, CA) <http://api.cde.ca.gov/Acnt2011/2011GrowthSch.aspx?allcds=01751010130096>;
SAT: 2140 (best single)
SAT superscore: 670 (reading) 730 (math) 780 (writing) [2180]
Essays: My essays revolved around how I wanted to focus on nursing, which shows direction.
Parents: Dad has a PhD, and mum has a bachelor's.

Not sure if this really affected it, but for religious affiliation, I put 'none'. The school is technically Jesuit Catholic, even though it's not a Christian school, per se.
---
What do I like about USF, specifically?
It has a pretty good nursing program. The school population is relatively small (I think it's <10,000 including grad students), which means class sizes probably are, too. The classes are close to the dorms. My sister had to walk at least 15 minutes to her classes at Berkeley. The frosh/soph dorms are really old, but the one for juniors and seniors is great. OH. And co-ed dorms (an all-male dorm would by a pigsty)!

Where else did I get in?
So far, I've gotten a reply from Cal State Long Beach. The UCs I applied to haven't started sending out admissions (except Irvine on Feb. 1st, but nursing majors take longer to get admission because there's a supplement).

Will I attend?
I'm considering USF, but it's pretty expensive. My older sister is currently attending UC Berkeley (junior) and she's going to go to pharmacy school, so it's not like my family has money to spare. But my dad has this thing against taking out loans (I think it's cultural).
---
I sent in my application on January 14th, sent in my transcript on January 27th (my school ended first semester really late), and got my acceptance email on February 24th. Just shy of a month                        

301. 
@TaeheeGoRawr
congrats! If i get in, i might see you at USF next year :) hehe.                        

302. 
                            Junior Transfer from UCSC
3.5 GPA
Comparative Literature & Cultures Major
Applied after the deadline (2/10), accepted 2/24
Female, white, not applying for financial aid
Good luck to everyone!                        

303. 
                            Accepted three days ago (:                        

304. 
                            Got accepted today during lunch while I was at school! It got me excited since it was one of my top choices!

I sent my application about 5 days before the Jan 15 deadline. Feb 15 was when they processed all of my documents (Rec Letters, Transcript, etc) & got accepted March 9.

Gender: Female
Ethnicity: Asian (Filipino)
Major: Business Undeclared
GPA: 3.06 weighted, not including the community college classes & an AP online class I took, since it's separate from my HS gpa.
SAT: 1910, 660 CR, 630 M, 620 W; only took once; i think my SAT score helped as it balanced my below average gpa.
Advanced classes: 2 honors classes, 6 AP classes, 3 community college classes
-gpa dropped drastically junior year since it was too much stress, but i managed to bump up my cumulative GPA by getting a 3.66 W in Fall semester Sr yr. I currently have a 4.4 W GPA in 2nd semester senior yr.
HS: in Southern Cali (LA County), 845ish API Score, silver medal school according to USNews & World Report. majority of school is Asian (who are overly competitive & get into the UCs/top cal states)
-HS Rank: top 50%
Essay: I wrote about my first family trip outside the US & how it changed my character/ impacted me, how it gave me a global perspective, and how it made me understood my place in the world. I also wrote the optional supplementary essay of USF's mission.

-I like everything about USF (except the school size only being 53 acres & its high tuition)
-I do plan on going there, even if I will be in debt.

The schools I applied to were a bunch of cal states as my safeties (Chico State, Cal State LA, CSU Long Beach, San Diego State, Pomona). I did not apply to UCs b/c with my GPA, I only have a higher chance in Riverside & Merced; I dont want to go there. I also applied to USC, Fordham, & Chapman but I highly doubt I'll get into USC with my stats.                        

305. 
                            mukk, congrats!

"I like everything about USF (except the school size only being 53 acres & its high tuition)"

Example: SF Population ~800,000 (in the city), SF Land Area ~<50 sq.mi.
San Jose (35 miles South of SF) Population ~1,000,000, SJ Land Area ~170 sq.mi.

So SF has about 20% less people than SJ, but are packed into an area just less than 30% of SJ. If you don't like the city life for a collegiate experience, then USF MAY not be for you. Of course living on campus, even a small one like USF, is a whole lot easier than the city itself. Did you visit?

"I do plan on going there, even if I will be in debt."

You shouldn't have to be in debt for your education. Not sure if you saw an article I posted in a thread elsewhere on this site, but the CA Finance Panel shot down Gov Brown's proposal to cut the Cal Grant, so this will significantly help you FA wise.                        

306. 
                            i have not heard from usf yet. i am worried.                        

307. 
                            Got admitted in January with a scholarship.  Not sure about the school because of its size.  Also got into Purdue's nursing program.  Direct entry into the program there with a scholarship too. Have to make a decision soon.  Any thoughts?                        

308. 
                            forest, which will give you the lower cost of attendance after scholarships?

newyork, have you called the admissions office recently?                        

309. 
                            Ok so i got accepted:

Gender: Female
GPA: 3.34
SAT: 1690
ACT: -
Major: Hospitality Management

I'm a little worried though!
My boyfriend applied at the same time, however when he sent in his letter of recommendation, recommendation form, and transcripts, the school didn't receive them (Must have been lost in mail) Luckily he found this out before the deadline and was able to send everything again. He talked to the school and they said that they have everything, but we still have yet to hear back... i'm getting worried. Could getting the letters and transcripts in late effect his acceptance, even if it was before the deadline?
His stats:

GPA: 3.24
SAT: 1740
ACT: -
Major: Undeclared- Sciences                        

310. 
                            it took approx. one month to process all the documents i had sent and another 3 to 4 weeks to get their email that said i was accepted. so the earlier you turn in the common app, the faster you will get a decision.

@turtlerock
I do want the city life for my collegiate experience, but like lblforest, the campus size of usf concerns me. i have heard complaints of the lack of student housing & that usf doesnt provide guaranteed housing for sophomores, only freshmen.

i havent visited the campus b/c i live 6 hours away, but i have seen videos and virtual tours of the campus and it looks pretty neat.

do you know how many days it took for you to get your acceptance package? i got the email, but im still waiting for the packet in my mailbox.                        

311. 
                            I got defferred around the middle of January, but I was accepted on Thursday for the summer term :) 

312. 
                            Major: Psychology
GPA- 3.4 U , 3.8 W
SAT- 1670

My GPA and SAT scores aren't all that great, but I'm really involved & i'm in 5 clubs including NHS, So i think that may have helped some. I'm also in the top 33% of my class.                        

313. 
                            mukk, what exactly do you mean by "lack of student housing"? Like, availability, or amenities? Maybe I can bust some myths for you.

Guaranteed housing is a good question. The housing brochure they sent me and their website only state "All undergraduate students newly admitted for the Fall semester, with 40 or fewer academic credits are required to live on campus for their first two semesters." So obviously Freshmen are guaranteed housing, but I'm not sure about others and I didn't ask about much campus living stuff since I'd be living independently if I attended.

You could try calling USF Student Housing and Residential Education (SHaRE) at 415-422-6824.

I received the packet in the mail about 1 week after I got the email, but I live in the South Bay, about 30 miles away.                        

314. 
                    I am in 11th grade and am working to narrow down the list of schools I will be applying to. I plan on applying to around 10 schools and I need one for safety school to add to the list. I have narrowed down my options to Seattle U or U San Francisco. My intended major is computer science and I am looking for small class sizes. I am not a religious person, but the Jesuit way of learning definitely appeals to me. I love the idea of living in a big city and both offer great job opportunities in the tech field post graduation. I should add that I am a resident of Washington and have extended family who live in Seattle. However, I do like the idea of moving away to California. Can anyone provide some insight as to which school has the better computer science program and which would be a better fit for me? Thanks in advance for your help.                

315. 
                            Anyone......                        

316. 
                    Hey everyone! My name is Rachel and I will be in the Biology program starting in the fall at USF. I really need a roommate, but I have no idea on how to really find one. I live all the way on the east coast, and I don't know anyone going to the same school as me. The roommate finder on USFrooms seems alright, but I can't really find out anything about personalities on there. Any advice on finding a roommate at USF?
By the way, I did not choose the gender-inclusive housing option, and I will be living on campus seeing as this is my first year.                 

317. 
                    Hello!

Can an alumni who was on the pre-med track at University of San Francisco tell me how they liked it there?

Do you think USF helped support you and prepare you well for applying and getting into medical school?

Is there anything special they have for pre-med students?

Do they "weed out" students in the pre-med track who doesn't have a certain GPA?

Currently I am stuck between Santa Clara University, University of San Francisco, and Mills College.

Thank you!                

318. 
                    I already got accepted into the school, however I had a D in my AP Calculus class the first semester of my senior year. I don't know if I need to report it or not or if it was included in their decision to accept me but I was just wondering if it was grade based or GPA based because right now I'm sitting around 3.6 - 3.8                

319. 
                    Woo! Just got admitted for the class of 2019 for Undeclared Arts.

Although I applied for Undeclared Arts, my mind has definitely changed about my major.  I wish I had applied to the dual degree program for teaching.  Is it possible to do my generals, then apply to the program? Will I be caught up to speed my second year? Or?

How easy is it to change your major you applied for after you completed your GE's?

Also, I didn't receive as much financial aid as I needed, but was wondering if the education, location and professors were worth the cost?

And what does it mean that their academic calendar is 4-1-4?  How many classes does a student usually take a semester?

Thanks!                

320. 
                            Not a current student, but I can answer some of your questions.

The dual degree teaching program is not a specific major, so it's fine that you were admitted undeclared (congrats, BTW!)  You will have to choose a major at some point, and also tailor your class choices to the DDTP program.  Here is the info you need - make sure you click on the links on the upper right side on the page:

http://www.usfca.edu/artsci/undergraduate/dual-degree-teacher-prep/

Focus your first semester on required core courses that every major requires, especially writing and speech since they are great prep for all upcoming courses.  Talk to the DDTP folks early on so that you select the core courses that will be of greatest use to you in that program and whatever major you think you might like.

The 4-1-4 schedule means you either have a nice long winter break or you can take coursework during intersession.

Good luck with your decision.  Whether it's worth it depends on your other options, budget, etc.  If you haven't had a chance to visit, you should make every effort to do so.  They have an admitted student day coming up on 4/18, but they also offer smaller admitted student visits that give you a great chance to talk to lots of different departments, students, etc.                        

321. 
                    i've been accepted to USF and have no idea what the schools like...ill probably be taking a trip there sometime soon (from southern ca)

any advice as to what the good/bad things about usf!?                

322. 
                            Good: LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION!
Good: Theme of social justice - of making a difference in the world.
Good: The relatively small size keeps you from being just a face in the crowd.
Good: Diversity in every way, including educational - you will find all kinds of students, from A+++ to B---.
Good: Study abroad at USF programs where your fin aid applies and all units go toward your degree.
Did I mention LOCATION?                        

323. 
                            They gave me a full year of credit (32 units) for the AP tests I passed - some of it is for required, core classes. And that doesn't include my senior year APs. REALLY good.                        

324. 
                            good- location
bad- student body does not reflect morals of the school
bad- if you are a minority, contrary to what books and USF materials claim.
bad- price of school. one semester with room and board, meal plan, books, etc.= $30,000
bad- credits did not transfer even though all grades were above C's                        

325. 
                            also, i find it funny how people (aka parents) love the school when their kids are still seniors and haven't experienced what a rip off USF actually is. i wish i would have done more thorough research by not only relying on the "positives" of the school.                        

326. 
                            ^I am very glad I was able to amuse you, Selenium707, you sound like you need cheering up. I know you are/were unhappy at USF - I read your posts on your old username as well, and I hope you have transferred or plan to transfer somewhere that fits your needs better.
My D hasn't yet made her final choice, and I can assure you, she is researching all her options carefully - including considering your comments and concerns. We have three close family members who are USF graduates, so she is hearing their thoughts as well.
We are aware of the costs (she has been offered some large scholarships) and the female/male ratio, but I am wondering about your comment concerning credits not transferring. Do you mean you transferred to another University, and your USF credits didn't transfer, or units you were bringing to USF didn't transfer in?
Again glad I could amuse you, that is what "a lame mom" does!                        

327. 
                            haha..sorry didn't mean to be so rude..
about the credits: my credits earned AT USF did not transfer to any colleges I applied to while looking to transfer. So now i'm at a different school, on a different coast, starting from scratch.                        

328. 
                            No problem! I didn't think you were being rude. I know you are probably remembering how excited you were when you were planning on attending, and how disappointed you were when it turned out it wasn't the right place for you. It must be frustrating to see wide-eyed students and (lame) parents (like me) so excited. You also have some valid points - private schools are VERY expensive, USF is about 65% female (which is actually closer to a 3-1 ratio than 7-1, but I won't quibble) and prospective students should definitely investigate the negatives before making their decision.

Thanks for the information about the credits - I have noticed that several of the Universities we have looked at are trying to make the "core" classes more exciting/interesting by giving them weird names and unusual content, and I was wondering what would happen if you had to transfer them somewhere. That is defintely a question we will ask of academic advisors at all of her potential schools.

I am thinking of you and hoping that things are going very well for you in your new start on the other coast and impressed with your strength to start from scratch after your disappointment. I also hope you have enough distance now to see that maybe, just maybe, USF could be the right place for someone else.

Good luck!                        

329. 
                            Wait, Your Credits Didnt Transfer!!! That is really serious. That is enough for me not to want to go there.                        

330. 
                            Are you serious!??? All of your credits didn't transfer!???????? I am a currently a USF student attempting to transfer to USD.

Does that mean that all 18 credits I am taking this semester won't transfer!???                        

331. 
                            Ask USD. The person who said that was transferring to a college back east and it probably has nothing to do with your situation.                        

332. 
                            thanks tocollege.. but it said on their website that transfer credits won't be released until I am admitted and pay my deposit.. I am kind feeling scared~                        

333. 
                            tocollege.. are u a current USF student?                        

334. 
                            Nope, an admitted student - so what do I know!! You could call the registrar at USD tomorrow and ask their opinion - they would give you much more accurate information than me. On the USD wesite it says: "Courses from accredited institutions are generally transferable if the grades are C or better." and USF is an accredited institution - so it seems you should be okay. Also, USD - like USF - is a Catholic University, so it is even more likely they will accept transfer credit. (There may have been other issues with the other student who had trouble transferring units.) Good luck!                        

335. 
                            Tks... tocollege... watch out for your towel when you are taking a shower.......

A few days ago, my towel was stolen when I was taking a shower....... it's absurd. <<< This is on campus housing at USF!>>>                        

336. 
                            coolant, yayy USD! I think Im going there...like a week to decide                        

337. 
                    Hi I was wondering if anyone can tell me what the average GPA/SAT is of students who are usually accepted to USF's nursing program? I've looked for it and I can't find it, even a link would be great :) Thanks in advance!                

338. 
                            Hi, my daughter applied and was accepted last year and is now attending.   I tried to find the same information but I could only come up with the general population admission stats.   I am sure, however, that the stats for nursing students are much higher than the general population, so you can use that as a guide.                        

339. 
@HighAltitude‌ thank you for the reply, is it possible for you to tell me what your daughter's stats were?                         

340. 
                            Sure.

4.0 gpa (4.0 scale)
6 AP classes, including AP Chem
31 ACT
3 sport athlete, multiple letters and captain positions
Elected officer NHS
Girls State
Life Guard
Volunteer at local hospital.


341. 
                            I am applying to the nursing program at USF too. I don't have high hopes about getting in :( My Gpa is a 3.67 and the SAT score I submitted was 1750. I hope they defer me, because then I can submit my second SAT score which was 1870. I have a lot of extracurriculars though. These other posts that I found don't make me feel too hopeful about getting in. I will copy and paste those results.


Accepted:

I'm gonna list anything that I think would have affected the decision.

Gender: Male
Ethnicity: Korean
Major: Nursing
GPA: 3.63 (weighted)
School API: 884 (Foothill High School, Pleasanton, CA) <http://api.cde.ca.gov/Acnt2011/2011GrowthSch.aspx?allcds=01751010130096>;
SAT: 2140 (best single)
SAT superscore: 670 (reading) 730 (math) 780 (writing) [2180]
Essays: My essays revolved around how I wanted to focus on nursing, which shows direction.
Parents: Dad has a PhD, and mum has a bachelor's.

Not sure if this really affected it, but for religious affiliation, I put 'none'. The school is technically Jesuit Catholic, even though it's not a Christian school, per se.
---
What do I like about USF, specifically?
It has a pretty good nursing program. The school population is relatively small (I think it's <10,000 including grad students), which means class sizes probably are, too. The classes are close to the dorms. My sister had to walk at least 15 minutes to her classes at Berkeley. The frosh/soph dorms are really old, but the one for juniors and seniors is great. OH. And co-ed dorms (an all-male dorm would by a pigsty)!

Where else did I get in?
So far, I've gotten a reply from Cal State Long Beach. The UCs I applied to haven't started sending out admissions (except Irvine on Feb. 1st, but nursing majors take longer to get admission because there's a supplement).

Will I attend?
I'm considering USF, but it's pretty expensive. My older sister is currently attending UC Berkeley (junior) and she's going to go to pharmacy school, so it's not like my family has money to spare. But my dad has this thing against taking out loans (I think it's cultural).
---
I sent in my application on January 14th, sent in my transcript on January 27th (my school ended first semester really late), and got my acceptance email on February 24th. Just shy of a month

I think this one is from a transfer student...

Gender: Female
Ethnicity: Asian (Taiwanese)
Major:BSN Nursing
Transfer student from De Anza/Foothill
GPA: 3.6(Nursing Pre-Req) 3.45 (Overall)
Over 200 hrs volunteered at The Stanford Hospital and Clinics
Rec letter originally (last Year) from Stanford Supervisor
This year it was from my boss from my youth golf coaching job

Letter was about how my days working at the Unit with the nurses and doctors opened my eyes to the world of not only professional medical care, but also a compassionate and kind one that helped me embrace who I was and who I wanted to be in the future.. And blah blah blah.

---I'm posting this because I need help deciphering whether or not my acceptance is legit.
I will be calling this coming Monday to clear things up, but for now I'm majorly confused about this small 2-paged postcard I received. Inside it says ' Congratulations on your admission to the University of San Francisco'. Outside and the whole postcard is very pretty and looks like a mini brief version of the actual 'official letter of acceptance packet' with all the colors and pictures.

The postcard is an invite to the 'admitted student visit program' this April.

This has been my dream school for the longest time, and because I failed to get in last year, right now, I feel so close to the success I want! But I have not received the official packet and im wary of being too happy about this card in case there is a mistake!

Please someone tell me this isn't a joke! Perhaps I have been admitted, but this is a card they sent out after the acceptance packet? I already RSVP for the event in April. Is that really only for admitted students?

I'm on an emotional rollercoaster.

My whole family believes the card is legit because they wouldn't mess with students by saying ' congrats on your admission'. But I feel this way I guess so I don't set myself up for a a huge fall if I'm too happy now.

Will update after Monday!!

Congrats on everyone who got in.

*** don't ever give up even if you didn't get into your dream school. Success isn't all vested in what college you go to or what grades you get. There's more to that in life. Keep up the positivity guys cause life is long and has so much to offer.

Thanks for reading my huge post.

Lisa



From: Manila, Philippines
Major: Nursing, hoping to pursue a double major with Psychology.

GPA: 3.95 (although, avg from the past 2 years = 4.13 out of 4.33)
SAT: 1730
SAT Chem: 630, SAT Bio: 700
IB: Psych HL (7), Math SL (5), Bio SL (7), Eng A1 HL (6), Chem HL (6), Spanish B (7). Predicted = 40 (w/ extended essay = B grade)

Summer Classes:
- USC Summer School 2010 summer: Physiology class (earned 3 college credits)
- Stanford EPGY Program 2011 summer: Bioscience and Biotechnology with an emphasis on Genetics

School activities:
- Orphanage Outreach President, JV Basketball Captain
- NHS
- Green Earth Ambassadors, Varsity Track and Field, Varsity Badminton, Good Samaritan Club, Project Compassion Club

College Acceptances:
- UC San Diego for Psychology
- UC Irvine for Psychology
- UC Davis for Neurobiology
- Loyola Marymount University for Psychology
- Mount St. Mary's for Nursing

I've decided to go to USF for Nursing. I know that passing up UCSD makes me crazy, as it offers one of the best psych programs in USA, not to mention their medical program as well... but nursing is what I ultimately chose, so...


I hope that helped :smile: Keep me posted on whether or not you get in.                        

342. 
@mapoftheworld‌ thank you so much! Thank you for putting so much time into actually going through other posts and copying and pasting! You are amazing and I wish you good luck!

I also applied to CSU's for nursing and UC Irvine. I'll keep you posted and when I get the decisions back. I'll post what stats I believe hurt me/helped me :) Thanks again!                        

343. 
@jenaylay I got into USF and Seattle University for Nursing! I also applied to the CSUs, but not the UCs. I lived in SoCal for awhile and it didn't suit me. Best of luck!                         

344. 
@jenaylay I just recently got into USF nursing! I could give you my stats if you want? Have you gotten a reply yet?
@mapoftheworld‌ Congratulations! Are you planning on attending USF for nursing? What do you think helped you the most on your college ap?                        

345. 
@jenaylay @mapoftheworld‌ Also do either of you guys know how many people were accepted into the nursing program early?                        

346. 
                            Bump                        

347. 
                            Oh my god @mapoftheworld congratulations!!! You're going to do great both USF and Seattle are amazing schools! I am legit jelly haha. @champ123 no i didn't do early for USF but I was accepted to most of my csus for pre nursing (still waiting on LA) and mount saint Marys :) I'd still love to hear your stats even tho it won't help me much now haha. And sorry I have no idea how many USF accepted into their nursing program but I'll look for the numbers! I'm so sorry I've been mia!!! #sickwithsenioritis haha                        

348. 
                            Wow, I am getting to this party really late. @champ123 Congrats! That's awesome. I plan to go to USF :) Upon further research I discovered that USF's program in better than Seattle's. I think my EC's helped me the most. Will you go to USF? What do you think helped you the most?

@jenaylay‌ Keep us posted on USF's decision! Congrats on the calstates :smile:                         

349. 
@‌mapoftheworld I was accepted to usf's nursing program :D I'm so thankful but I'm just worried about tuition prices, it's so expensive, like $50,000? I think my GPA (4.29/5, 3.77/4) and my SAT (2020) probably helped me get in.                         

350. 
                            I got accepted!
SAT: 1720
GPA
UW: 3.88
W: 4.23                        

351. 
@jules59 congratulations!!! ^^                         

352. 
                            Hi once again @champ123 . I just came across this group and I was wondering if there are any transfer nursing applicants ? :). Did any of you receive your decisions?                        

353. 
                    Does anyone know when early action decisions are going to come out?                 

354. 
                            I was wondering the same- I can't find any posts on this site, on any form of social media, it's weird...                        

355. 
@aulover1‌ I did some research on past threads and it looks like they send an email before an admission packet.
I assume for most to all of the applications...
2011- Dec 23
2012- Dec 21
2013- Dec 20
I assume they'll send e-mails out tomorrow before they go on holiday break...


356. 
                            The USF campus is closed Wednesday 12/24 through New Year's Day, reopening Friday, 1/2.  I hope they mailed something out Tuesday or have emails queued up to be released later, otherwise it looks like you'll be waiting until the New Year.  Good luck to all of you!                        

357. 
                            Looks like USF decided to forgo email notifications this year.  They mailed (at least some) decisions 12/23 and applicants have been receiving them today.                        

358. 
                            has anyone on the east coast gotten admission decisions yet??? I am from Massachusetts and have not received an admission decision by post or by email yet but I'm not sure if that's something I should be concerned about or not                        

359. 
                    I applied to USF for early action and i got rejected. I have a 3.1 unweighed gpa and a 27 ACT score. I have a sibling that currently goes to USF. Is there anything I can do? The letter that i received says that they are "unable to offer me admission to the university". However, on the USF website ( http://www.usfca.edu/catalog/admission/undergrad/ ) it says that for early action applicants, you'll either get admitted or deferred. I didn't even get deferred, i got flatout rejected.                 

360. 
                            Maybe you can try emailing them?
Did you get the notification via mail or email?
I havent gotten any mail yet :-< 

361. 
                            What major did you apply for? That might be a factor as to why you were rejected                        

362. 
                    I heard that USF looks only at your highest composite, and not at any of the subscores. Does anyone know if this is true?
I got a 28 for my composite score, but a 20 on the science section. I want to send in my 28, but I'm worried that the 20 will negate the 28.

Anyone know their ACT policy?
Thanks.                

363. 
                            That is not necessarily true.  According to the USF website, they super score ACT and SAT (use the highest section from each test sitting).  Additional, they place significant weight on the writing portion of either test.

Obviously you did MUCH better on the other sections in order to have a 28 composite.  Unless you are applying as a science student, you should be in good shape.

Depending on your GPA and other classes, you should be admitted for Fall.                        

364. 
                            sorry - wrong USF!                        

365. 
                    I know the UC's require 2 years but prefer 3 years. Is this the same for USF? USF requires 2 years but it doesn't say they prefer/recommend 3 years.                

366. 
                            bump                        

367. 
                            A 3rd year would look good anywhere.                        

368. 
                    How important are extra curricular activities to freshmen applicants and do they consider class rigor like AP and honors a lot?                 

369. 
                    The question says it all.                 

370. 
                            No, separate universities.  U of SF is Jesuit based private University offerering Undergrad and Graduate programs , while UCSF is a UC but only offers graduate level programs. There is such a thing called the Internet to answer your questions.

http://www.ucsf.edu

http://www.usfca.edu/


371. 
                    I have a 3.3 weighted and 27 act. Would usf be a reach?                

372. 
                            Your GPA is below the 25th percentile but your ACT is around the 75th percentile.  You will look at your EC's and essays also, so they are not just numbers driven.  I would say you are a Low Reach/High Match based upon your stats. Write some outstanding essays you could boost your chances.                        

373. 
                            i applied 3.8 W and 31 ACT. it's my backup school though. Maybe if you raised your ACT you have a higher chance. USF has a high acceptnace rate so I wouldn't worry                        

374. 
                            Do you think early decision could help? Their avg act is 25                        

375. 
                    Hi.
Is there a way to obtain a fee waiver for the application to USF?

Thank you in advance.                

376. 
                    My D has a 3.45 and a 22 ACT. She has a reason for the 2 Cs that is bringing down her average. Good but not outstanding ECs although worked professionally in theater during all of high school and sometimes in excess of 30 hours a week.                

377. 
                            She asked if they would look at an arts supplement, they said no. I thought they wanted a holistic view of the candidate?                        

378. 
                    USF gives an extra grade point to honors classes or AP that are 11th or 12th grade level correct?

So will Biology 2 honors be counted an extra point?
Biology 2 can be taken 10th grade year so I'm not sure since you take Biology 1 freshmen year.                

379. 
                            bump                        

380. 
                    I have a gpa of 2.8 .
I am taking community college classes over summer .
I took AP & honors .
I got C's in my regular classes but did well in my AP & honors classes .
I have 300+ community service hours.
I am in key club and was an officer. ( editor & historian )
I am in Air Force junior ROTC and had been special project officer and currently vice commander .
I've been volunteering at my Catholic Church since I was little and volunteered as a TA for the vietnamese and bible classes there . I also helped with their cultural dances and altar serving program.
I was also the president for Asian pacific student union .
I did track and field and played soccer freshman year .
I got a 1210/2400 on my sat.
I am going to retake my sat and take my act during fall.
English is my second language and I'm currently learning spanish.
I am going to be a senior .                

381. 
                    I just got waitlisted and have sent in my Wait List Response Form. Who else got waitlisted? Also, they said that they won't start reviewing the waitlist until after May 1st. But May 1st is the deadline for Intent to Register for many colleges. What should I do?                

382. 
                            Call them and ask them where you are on the waitlist (like 1st tier, 2nd tier).  You can have your college counselor call them on your behalf and advocate for you.                        

383. 
                            Is there a way to find out how many applicants they had this year and approximately when they will notify the students on the wait list about their decision?                         

384. 
                            Here's the number if you guys need to call! (415) 422-6563                        

385. 
                            Hi, I was also waitlisted at USF for fall 2014. I know you made this post awhile ago but, I was wondering if you have heard back from them yet? I haven't yet and it's June.


386. 
                    Hi, I was  waitlisted at USF for fall 2014. I was wondering if anyone has heard back from them yet?  I haven't yet and it's June.                

387. 
                    Any current students or graduates know about how good is the business department at usf? I understand that business is all about connection so what are the business students at usf like? And is it easy to get internships and jobs for business?                 

388. 
                    Has anyone received their financial aid award packet yet?  If so, do you mind commenting on it.  We are anxiously awaiting this information to determine how feasible it is for D to attend.  I know Seattle U had theirs online, but I think SFU sends the info through the mail.                

389. 
                            momof3d, we haven't received ours yet, either.  I am waiting to hear as well, so that my son can make his decision.  USF is his first choice college, but if the money isn't there, he is out of luck.                        

390. 
                            My daughter is in a very similar situation.  SFU was the first school she became really excited about after visiting.  She will visit Seattle U in a few weeks, and their package was not great, but I think it is probably doable.                        

391. 
                            momof3d, do you live in California?  We live in New York State.  My son also applied and was accepted to San Francisco State University.  SFSU is his second choice.  That will cost about 30K a year nonresident tuition and room and board.  Do you know anything about SFSU?  We have visited there.  The campus was not as nice as USF, but the price is appealing.

I wonder if USF is generous with aid.  Do you know?  I haven't heard anything.                        

392. 
                            We live in Colorado.  I don't know too much about SFSU.  I do know that my daughter did not apply there because her major (nursing) is an impacted major in California, so as I understand it she had no chance of being accepted into that major as an out of state student.  I ended up calling USF today and they said the financial aid packets will go out in waves until the first week or so of April.  Waiting is so fun.                        

393. 
                            I received a merit based aid letter today (do not know if this is the same packet you all were discussing), and they are willing to award me $9,000 per year. I really hope i can get some additional financial aid.                        

394. 
                            HI,  I called USF yesterday and guess what????  They have selected my FAFSA for verification.  Augh.....I downloaded forms and faxed everything over, now I sit and wait.  SFSU was grim.......no aid at all, just what I figured.  Hoping USF beats SFSU.                        

395. 
                            they keep sending all of these fluff packets and seems a waste of $ just want to know the bottom line to see if its viable every other place dd has been accepted has at least already advised the scholarship $
oh well                        

396. 
                            Is it USF that is sending your daughter the fluff packets?  My son has received scholarships from all the other privates that he has been accepted to, but nothing at all, yet, from USF.  USF hasn't given us anything yet, except that we have been selected for verification.  Thanks.                        

397. 
                            i haven't received any financial aid either, but i'm hoping i get something good! it's one of my top picks. hopefully it comes in the next week or so since april is just around the corner!                        

398. 
                            myjunkisyou,  I hear you.....waiting is a real pain.  Why can't these colleges just send these financial aid packages in a timely manner.  I imagine many students wait to see the bottom line price before they decide.  May 1st is right around the corner.

Good luck to everyone with their financial aid packages!                        

399. 
                            Hey everyone,
I'm still anxiously awaiting my financial aid package as well. I also got the $9,000 academic merit award, I just hope I get more.                        

400. 
                            anyone has more information about financial aid                        

401. 
                            logged in to my son's usf connect account and there it was NO financial aid at all.  two loans that is it!  USF is way too much $$.  Guess I need to look at my other choices.  :-( 

402. 
                            Nick10, as soon as I read this I tried to look up my daughter's financial aid info.  I logged on, but could not find it.  I wonder if they haven't finished hers yet.  Just in case, what link did you click on to find your sons?  Thanks!                        

403. 
                            log on to usf connect and then financial aid.
mostly loans and scholarships. i'm disappointed                        

404. 
                    I was just recently accepted off the waitlist and will be attending here. Part of my financial package is about a $20,000 grant from USF. My question is how do I get the Dean's Merit scholarship of $6,000? My GPA and SAT scores meet the requirement for this scholarship but it is not factored in the financial aid award package. Can someone tell me how I go about getting this $6,000 scholarship? Thank you.                

405. 
                            Congrats, you got in, and you got $20,000.                        

406. 
                            Call them                         

407. 
                    I just got accepted to USF in Computer Science, and I just wanted to know how good the school is with preparing its students in terms of facilities and classes in computer science.                

408. 
                    I read in the big thread that they release the first "batch" (which includes...?) Feb 26 and the second March 12. It is March 15 now and I haven't gotten any email and there is nothing to be seen when I login (except my application). Do they only send letters? Or have I gotten the wrong dates? I'm an international student btw.                

409. 
                    Hi, I am hoping on going to the University of San Francisco to major in Biology in the fall of 2014. I have lived in North Carolina most of my life and have never been to the west coast. My question is: How is life in San Francisco as a student? (Is it fast paced or more laid back) Is the community very accepting? Also: As a Jesuit Catholic institution, is mass mandatory for first-year students? (Such as with Campbell University, mass is required twice a week for first-year students)

Thank You!                

410. 
                    I am from the East Coast considering Usfca. What school on the East coast compares to this school the most??                

411. 
                            Are you looking for other Jesuit institutions?

Fordham, Faifield, Scranton, St. Josephs...

search for "association of jesuit colleges and universities".                        

412. 
                    I applied EA for USF on nov 14th through common app and I have no idea how to check my admissions status. On the USF website it has a login and says it's to check admissions for their online app OR common app but it asks for an ID number and where would I have gotten that upon submission?
Also, am I supposed to get an email from usf verifying my submission or anything? All I have is verification from common app....                

413. 
                            I applied EA too via the online app. Try emailing the admissions office and asking them. I had the same problem and after emailing them, they sent me all my info. Good Luck!                        

414. 
                            I have that same problem and I don't know what to do!                        

415. 
                            Call the USF I.T. people.  They will give you a user ID and password.  However, the information on the website is very limited, only states what has been received (and not everything is listed).  There is no status field.  My daughter had called the Regional contact before the deadline to ensure everything was received before the deadline.  Her application was submitted mid-October.  She hasn't received any word on decision yet.  Good luck!                        

416. 
                            I applied through common app (EA) as well. All my required documents were received on October 30th. I had the same problem as well with checking the application status (called the school and received my login + password), but like curiousinseattle said, the website won't tell you the status of your application.

I don't think I'll be going to USF, but I'd still like to know if I got in or not. I think we're supposed to hear in the next 2 weeks. Good luck everybody!

edit: Notification date for EA on the website says January 1st.                        

417. 
                            Why do we have to wait so long? Waiting is seriously the hardest part!!!!                        

418. 
                    Hey guys! So I was just wondering how long it takes for the admissions office (in this case USFCA) to actually process the paper work. For example, my school sent my transcripts about a week ago but it has not showed that they have received them. I also sent them my letter of recommendation yesterday (Thursday) from Utah, so how long would that take? Anyone else applying?                

419. 
                            Did you apply through common app? How are you viewing your admissions status?                        

420. 
                    Hey guys! So I submitted my application, but I applied as a Freshman when I actually wanted to apply as Freshman Early Action. Is there any way I can fix this? Please, this is my no. 1 school.

Also, I was too busy freaking out about the application type that I totally did not read the message that shows after you submit it. I did see it say something about the $55 fee but I'm not sure how that works. Please if anyone can help me, I'd greatly appreciate it.                

421. 
                            have you called USF admissions?   They could probably change that within seconds....                        

422. 
                            I emailed my counselor, but I will definitely call tomorrow. How do you pay the $55 fee?                        

423. 
                    I was just curios as to how much students at USF actually end up paying, with all their scholarships and federal aid money. I know the actual cost, but I hear no one ever pays that much in reality.                

424. 
                    I am wondering if international students can apply for need-based financial aid in USF. In bigfuture (by the college board) it says that international students are eligible for need based aid. I've searched USF's web page and they only state that "If you are a U.S. Citizen or Permanent Resident, you are eligible to apply for financial aid at USF".                

425. 
                    So I've been waitlisted and USF is my #1. I read lots of articles online saying that if the school is your #1, show them it is by writing a short 1 - 2 page letter expressing your interest. I was going to do this but my AP lit teacher said there's no point. What do you guys think? I'm obviously not going to drive admissions crazy, but I don't think 1 letter will hurt. Any ideas?                

426. 
                            I'd say to go for it, and to include any new info you can on what you've been up to, academically and extracurricularly, since you sent your application in, or plan to do for the rest of the semester. You may also want to consider putting together a small portfolio if you're involved in the arts, or an additional letter of recommendation from someone who can provide a different perspective than whoever wrote your first. If you're unsure, though, it may be a good idea to talk to your school counselor or even a USF admissions counselor for advice.                        

427. 
                            Does anyone know how to start a waitlist letter? Do I write "first I'd like to thank you for looking over my application", or do I just go right ahead and say why the school would be a perfect fit for me? Also, I would only be able to attend the school if I got an adequate amount of financial aid. Should I say that in the letter? I don't exactly know how to write one, so any help would be appreciated. :) 

428. 
                            I just got an e-mail notifying me that I got off the waitlist for Fall 2013.. Didn't do write a letter or anything.. Too bad the financial aid package was horrible.. My EFC was around $6,000 and they only gave me $5,500 in loans.                        

429. 
                            I just got off the waitlist too, but when did you find out how much financial aid you got?                        

430. 
                            Hello there!

If you were just admitted from the wait list at University of San Francisco and submitted your FAFSA to us, you will be considered for financial aid. Your package should be available for review tomorrow. You will receive an email at the email address you put down as primary on your application notifying you that the package is available.

Good luck and congrats!
USF Admission                        

431. 
                            Do what you heart tells you, especially if the school is your #1.                        

432. 
                    ???

+ how do you pay for it. I swear you can buy a new car per semester.
Applied for FAFSA going to see how much they'll grant me first :\                

433. 
                            I was admitted a few months ago :)

I'm also waiting for the financial aid packages to arrive before making my final decision on which college to attend... I also haven't been to the campus yet (can't wait until the 16th!), so :) 

434. 
                            i know right i got in but the first thing my mom said was : I can't buy a new car.

-__________________________________-

The campus looks nice ish lol I've passed by it all my life but never stopped to look inside.                        

435. 
                            Got in today for Fall 2013! Waiting on all the other letters before making my decision but i do love the city and the school seems nice                        

436. 
                            I found out yesterday that I got in for fall 2013. I'm a transfer student from California. It was my number 1.                        

437. 
                            Congrats! it's my number 1 too but I don't think I can afford it :P ohwell SFSU isn't that bad..                        

438. 
                            its my number 22 :) ill get my decision this week i think coz its gonna be 4 weeks since they received my stuff.                        

439. 
                            also can the admitted ppl post their stats?                        

440. 
                            Got in with 8K a year scholarship : )

3.7 GPA,
2030 SAT (700 math, 620 critical reading, 710 writing)
Rigorous Course-load,
Graduated with Honors                        

441. 
                            I haven't received my fin aid package yet? Is it through e-mail or through the mail?                        

442. 
                            Accepted. Definitely not going tho (I was accepted to Illinois as well). 2180 SAT (800 M, 680 CR, 700 W, 6 E), 800 M2 SAT2, 770 M1 SAT2, 650 USH SAT2, 110 TOEFL. Intl student so no GPA. Didnt apply for finaid. Major - History.                        

443. 
                            When do acceptance letters come? I applied in December and still have not gotten anything :\                        

444. 
                            Shairo- The best thing to do is find out who the admission counselor that is assigned to review your app. is. Call them directly and ask about your app. They need to know how serious you are about attending USF. That's what I did and I feel it's what got me in. I started a relationship with her and called her three times before I was accepted. Also, if you can, set up a campus visit. You can talk face to face with your admission counselor. It puts a face and a personality to your app. Best of luck.                        

445. 
                            I applied regular decision in early January, but have not yet heard anything... How long should I wait before I call them AGAIN?!                        

446. 
                            is ur application processed?? decisions should be released 4 weeks after that. if its been more then call them. u will likely get ur decision by the next day                        

447. 
                            I have been offered the scholarship of 6k $'s. Eventhough i got the support of 6k, after reading all the related posts abt USF I am finding more difficulty with this as everyone says it is more expensive.

Please anyone here let me know if the Computer Science here is good and how much tuition fee could be per semester?

I also got admit in University of North Carolina Charlotte. Its cheap and good in academics, but as my brother is in San jose state university, i want to stay near to him so giving priority to USF.

and which one is better USF or UNCC?                        

448. 
                    Financial aid is financial aid. Let's hear some Q&A; on financial aid.                

449. 
                    Hi,

I know there's a way to waive the health fee completely by having your own insurance, but there's also another way by just having the fees waived all-in-all. Does anyone know how that is done or other ways the health fee can be taken off? It's too expensive and I don't need it. Help!                

450. 
                    I was accepted into USF for fall 2013 and I just received my financial aid package. they stated that my expected parent contribution is around 20,000, and my need is 37,000. however they did not award me any grants, but they gave me about 5500 in loans from the school. How can this be possible? How can I not have gotten a grant? do they expect me to pay 40,000 in student loans each year? I am confused. how can they say my need is so high but not give me any money. Did this happen to anyone else?                

451. 
                            Maybe they have a cap for EFC and when grants kick in. I would call them to double-check this as the financial aid you have been given seems quite low.                        

452. 
                            I Hav a similar issue as well... My efc is 0 and I Hav no institution aid and expected to pay 26k after loans. Something is definitely off                        

453. 
                            I spoke to USF's Financial Aid office today because we had a similar experience - low EFC but no aid other than $5500 in loans and work study. They said that we definitely have need but grants are only awarded based on merit and my daughter's GPA was not high enough to merit awards... I asked if there was some way to appeal but was told no...It's my daughter's first choice but we'll have 2 in college this year...anyone know of any options/suggestions?                        

454. 
                            I just looked at their website and it says incoming students interested in grants must have a 3.35 or higher. Maybe it means if you have a lower GPA, you don't qualify for grants? I'm not sure, I didn't understand, but this is the link: University of San Francisco (USF) - University Grants & Scholarships 

455. 
                            This really scared me, because I had a GPA of 3.369 when I was admitted x.x
Most private schools max out your loan ability before giving you any grants at all. :\ At least you guys got your packages, because I STILL haven't gotten anything. =__=                        

456. 
                            Meow, got your package yet? I'm still waiting...got an email today telling me I could view it on connect, but nothing is up yet! Calling tomorrow, it's getting way too late.                        

457. 
                    Anyone willing to share their FAFSA Estimated Family Contribution (EFC) and aid they received from USF? D's Admission's Letter is dated 03/20th but still no finanacial packet received. Any insight would greatly be appreciated. Thanks!                

458. 
                            According to previous years, they've come out within the first week of April.

For what it's worth, I have an EFC of 1500 and am estimating 12k from USF. I'll update you when I get my FA packet.                        

459. 
                            I was accepted a while ago as well but have not received my financial aid award letter. I received an award letter from Menlo College for about $26,000. Will the amount for USF be around the same since it's based on the FAFSA? Thank's for your help!                        

460. 
                            I received my Financial Aid Award letter today. I'm pretty sure each school differs on how much aid they give to you. I received a substantial amount from USF. More than the other schools that have given me aid. Then again those schools are in different states so I'm not sure if that matters. If I got mine today, you'll probably get yours today or within the week.                        

461. 
                            we had an EFC of 13K and we only got the $5500 in loans and work study :(  Not looking good at this point.

BTW- other Catholic schools (U of Seattle, Gonzaga) offered a lot more and based on the same FAFSA so it seems USF is more tight with their money. I was told by the Fianncial Aid office today that even though we've shown need (+2 kids in college), grants at USF are merit based (GPA/SAT/ACT)....

@lebibliophile - do you mind sharing your stats or EFC?  I haven't heard of too many people getting substantial aid from USF - congrats!                        

462. 
@soosmoos- I applied to SeattleU and they offered 27K which is a good amount, but still not enough for me to afford the rest of the tuition.

Stats:
3.5 GPA
1740 SAT
Only volunteer work was at a Kaiser Hospital
No extracurriculars besides Book Club
First in my family to attend college.
I come from a diverse background as well, but I'm not sure if they care a lot about this.

My EFC is 01168.

I will say my FA package from USF has given me over 40K in aid.                        

463. 
                            lebibliophile, by "aid" how much of that was grants and scholarships? :\ Only if you're okay with sharing. For some reason my financial aid package STILL isn't out, although they told me it should be out by Monday...                        

464. 
                            Was awarded a substantial amount of financial aid but sadly i wont be able to attend.

EFC: 0
GPA: 4.1
SAT(CR &math;): 1170

Merit scholarship- $10,000
State tuition grant-$8,000
work study-$2,500
Pell-$5645
Cal Grant A-$9,000
loans(stafford, perkins)-$8,500                        

465. 
@meow443 - They gave me $7500 in loans, $3000 in work study and the rest (rather not say, but a considerable amount, 30K+) is from grants. Right now I'm applying for scholarships to help pay the rest of the tuition and hopefully I'll get enough that I won't need to use the loans. I hope you get your package soon!                        

466. 
                    I asked this in the Puget Sound thread, so I want to get perspectives from this side to. Which one is better for pre-med support, languages, and economics? I know it's a wide range.                

467. 
                            I am literally making the same decision right now. I'm leaning towards USF now though because they gave me more financial aid. But if someone could persuade me that Puget Sound is a better choice then I'm all ears. Also if anyone has info about the Psychology/Neuroscience programs.                        

468. 
                            Those were my top two as well! Until I got my financial aid package...I'd kill to go to Puget Sound because of the location, but USF seems to be more economically feasible- quite the opposite of what I expected.

I can't offer much regarding comparisons, but I've heard pretty impressive things about USF's pre-med program.                        

469. 
                    I know location is very important when choosing a university. This may seem silly to some but does anyone worry about San Francisco location regarding earthquakes? Are dorms/classrooms there structually reinforced for this? Just wondering.                

470. 
                            Well I live in Southern California near LA and I've only experienced 2 or 3 small earthquakes and 1 medium one in my life, so I don't think you have much to worry about. And considering it is San Francisco, I'm sure the buildings are built to handle earthquakes.                        

471. 
                    Hi Everyone,
I applied regular decision and am waiting to hear back. I was wondering what my chances are of getting accepted? I have a 3.39 unweighted GPA (I have taken 2 Honors classes and 1 AP) from a very prestigious private school in Oregon, and I have a positive grade trend throughout my high school years. I also got a 1680 on my SAT's. I have a lot of EC activities, such as cross country, 100+ community service hours with the Red Cross (aspiring premed student), 10 years of playing the piano, art awards, vice president of the student council, student ambassador, editor in chief of the school yearbook, etc.... My father is also native american, so I have a culturally diverse background, and will be the first of my parents to graduate from college.
Based on all of this, what do you think my chances of getting into University of San Francisco are? Thanks!                

472. 
                            did you have to write that essay? or was that just a transfer thing

i think what helped me was the essay cuz i have a 3.3 or so. but i transferred.

i think they like that you do community service and all too.

well when you get accepted theyll email you first then they send you the packet then they email you that you can look at your financial statement.

lol if you're poor like me then thatll suck cuz i declined cuz i can't pay even if they covered half the tuition.

anyways, best of luck i guess lol.                        

473. 
                    Okay, so my GPA is way lower than the average (3.24 UW, 3.48 W) but I have an excuse for that. I moved to an Arabic speaking country freshman year of high school and I didn't read or write any Arabic at all. I had to learn Arabic and do all my schoolwork in a language I hardly understood. My grades freshman year were A's and B's, sophomore A's, B's, and C's, and first semester of junior year A's and B's. However, I came back to America second semester of junior year and I improved. (Don't colleges like to see improvement?) These were my grades:
-English A-
-Photography A-
-Geometry A-
-US History A
-Chem A
-Bio A
In summer school I took Algebra 2 and got an A- both semesters.
This year my grades were:
-ASB A
-AP macro A-
-Trig C (I know, it's horrible)
-AP lit B-
-AP chem C (again, horrible)
-ASL A

My SAT score is a 1650. 550 M, 520 CR, and 580 W.
My Ec's are decent but not the greatest: I'm in 3 clubs and have a leadership position in one, leadership position in ASB, I've tutored elementary school kids a couple times (only because it was required for one of my clubs).
I had an amazing personal statement talking about my trip to Syria and how much I hated it at first but then how much I fell in love with the country and the people and stuff like that. I also had a really, really great letter of rec from my AP lit teacher. Like amazing. He wrote some really personal stuff about me that I think would help with admission. I also have a Syrian citizenship as well as my American one if it would help in any way haha. (probably not, but worth mentioning.)
But I'm afraid of those 2 C's totally ruining my chances for admission even though my AP lit teacher keeps telling me to just relax and that he knows many more people with worse stats than me that got in. I keep reading on these types of forums that people with waaaay higher stats than me are getting in and I just wanted to know what my chances are. And can anyone who's gotten in please post their GPA and SAT score for me? That would be great!                

474. 
                            ur Cs wont get u down. i had quite a few Cs (and Ds) in my junior n senior year (im intl tho). get ur SAT over 1800-1900 and ur guaranteed to be admitted.
i had a 2180 SAT and subpar grades in my last 2 years and i got a 6k scholarship (didnt apply for any scholarship/honors program/finaid)
USFCA isnt very selective so i think ull make it. hope this helps and best of luck!                        

475. 
                            Has anyone out there been admitted regular decision to Nursing Program? Our son was deferred from Early to regular.  He's already been admitted to two other nursing schools so far early University of Portland and Regis University in Denver.  We live in Portland, so he's hoping to move away from immediate area.  Still also waiting to hear from Gonzaga and Seattle U                        

476. 
@MominOregon1 What are your son's stats? I have applied for regular decision to the nursing program but I have yet to hear back                        

477. 
                            Not off the charts...3.45 UW/3.6 weighted IB courses in Bio, Calc, Psych, Spanish, Theory of Knowledge. 1900 SAT.  Varsity Ski racer and golf for extracurriculars with quite a bit of career specific volunteering at local hospital, nursing facilities. We got a "yes" from Seattle U today so he's now 3 for 3.                        

478. 
                            My app was processed Feb. 19 and I still haven't gotten anything back, is that bad news?                        

479. 
                            My application was processed February 15th and I haven't heard back either.... Its making be really nervous!                        

480. 
                            i think u guys should call. best of luck :) 

481. 
                            Kkristen12, I just called admissions and they checked my application and told me I'll have a decision in a couple weeks. I took that to mean 2 or 3? But yeah, you should call :) good luck! Hoping that we both get in! :) 

482. 
                    Hi, Recently I've been accepted into USF Summer term for 2013. However I found out that FAFSA unfortunately doesn't cover for the Summer anymore and it only covers for the Fall. Which got me really worried because I don't think my family will be able to afford it. I called the admission office and I asked to get deferred to Fall but there is no guarantee I will get in. Has anyone taken summer classes at USF? How did you pay for it? Help please ]:                

483. 
                            I think the best thing to do is to do it at city college then have it transferred. My CCSF college credits got transferred to them. $46 per unit over there ^_^                        

484. 
                    So I recently received my packet from USF with the letter congratulating me for my acceptance... But it was just one piece of paper inside an envelope.
I've heard of people getting news about their merit scholarships, and I was wondering if that information was supposed to come with the acceptance letter? :( I'm pretty sure I qualify for at least SOME merit scholarship, but I got nothing... >w<
Help will be much appreciated! <3                

485. 
                            I got my scholarship letter in my packet with the letter of admission! Check out this out to see if you qualify for the scholarships, this is the criteria you had to meet to get the scholarship letter in the packet! Best of luck to you!
University of San Francisco (USF) - Financial Aid 

486. 
                            Do you guys receive an acceptance email AND letter or either one?                        

487. 
                            I received an email, an acceptance letter, and a merit scholarship paper. I only got $6,000 off tuition hopefully I'll end up getting more from the FAFSA or I won't be able to go                        

488. 
                            Sigh... I'm just hoping it's just a mistake on their part regarding the scholarships (I'm pretty sure I at least made the $6,000 one :( ). And I'm the same as phezzzz; if I don't get a lot of money from FAFSA, then there's no way I'll be able to go to USF... >w<                        

489. 
                            I wonder how much people typically get off from the FAFSA and cal grants                        

490. 
                            USF Admissions just sent an email out this morning saying there was a typo on the original merit-based scholarship letter, so if you didn't get one because of error the first time around, you should be getting one this time, hopefully. Good luck!:)                        

491. 
                            For anyone trying to compare or get an idea of the costs, feel free to view http://talk.collegeconfidential.com/university-san-francisco/885176-usf-financial-aid.html and the last couple pages of posts.                        

492. 
                            Oh my, it's turtlerock the savior again <3

I'm really clueless on all this scholarship stuff so :( I'm a little confused. So by applying for FAFSA, we will receive some amount of financial aid through Calgrants right? I noticed in one of the posts from the thread you just posted that Loyal253 received a large sum from a tuition grant. Do colleges give you grants based on your need automatically after applying for financial aid? Because I always thought all I'd be receiving is FAFSA money (which I heard is around $10,000) so I was thinking it'd be impossible for me to attend USF :( 

493. 
                            I'll try to explain briefly how Financial Aid works:

There are 4 main forms of Financial Aid (hitherto referred to as FA in California):
1. Cal Grant Eligibility -This is an amount not to exceed $9,084 if attending a public institution or $4,000 if attending a private institution (like USF). There are 3 types of Cal Grants - A, B, and C. All are awarded an amount from $1 up to the maximum based on need, however GPA requirements must be met for A and B at 3.0 and 2.0 respectively. After you fill out the FAFSA, you will need to request your high school official (academic counselor or whoever) to file a Cal Grant application on your behalf (as they are the ones to certify your GPA). Cal Grant C is awarded based on extreme need, and is used differently than A and B. You will need to resubmit for Cal Grant eligibility after 2 years (for Cal Grant A) or 1 year (for Cal Grant B), however your original application for Cal Grant is good for 4 years (if I remember right). So, you can have your High School official file your Cal Grant application your Sr year, take 1-2 years off of school before you begin college and you will still be eligible for the original award amount, only needing to reapply after 1-2 years of school time, or after 4 years of not using the grant.
California Student Aid Commission - 2012 Eligibility Changes as a Result of the 2012 Budget Act
http://www.csac.ca.gov/NEWS/G-30_calgrantcomparisonchart.pdf

2. Institutional need-based grants - Institution would be the school, and these grants are any amounts (or lack thereof) that the school feels they can give you towards your tuition in an attempt to meet your need, as in helping you only having to pay an amount that is close to the FAFSA EFC (expected family contribution). Most schools are not required to meet student need  - i.e. if the FAFSA says one student's EFC is 5000, the school is not required to give enough grant aid so that the student ends up paying exactly 5000. The school can give grant aid that brings the student's cost to 7500 or 6500 and may think that is enough, though of of course the student and family may think otherwise. These grants are considered need-based in the sense that the student will need them to get close to their EFC provided by FAFSA. This is the biggest misunderstanding with FA: FAFSA itself does not grant any grants or scholarships. I only analyzes your income and assets information and gives you a number, the EFC, that the schools you apply to can gauge you need off of (and it also determines your award amounts for public grants you do get).

3. Merit awards - these are the simplest. You get "X" amount of money for having "X" GPA or "X" SAT/ACT scores. Sometimes these awards are renewable for 4 years (so long as the student maintains eligibility by having "X" GPA), but sometimes they are a one-time-only affair and it's important to watch out for those as you may be awarded it for your Freshman year thinking it will also be there your next year, but then it's not. Other merit awards come in the form of scholarships and can be given from outside sources (foundations or private donors), not just the school itself. There are also athletic-scholarships which I will lump as merit awards.

4. Student loans - Just by filing the FAFSA you (the student) are qualified to receive $5,500 (Freshman), $6,500 (Sophomore), and $7,500 (Jr and Sr) of a combination of subsidized and unsubsidized loans if you are a dependent. You are qualified to receive $9,500 (Fresh), $10,500 (Soph), and $12,500 (Jr and Sr) if you are independent or if you are a dependent student whose parents are unable to obtain PLUS loans. Again, to be able to receive these all you need to do if actually file a FAFSA - no income and assets analyzed. You may also obtain private student loans from commercial banks or what have you.
Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans | Federal Student Aid

meow443 wrote:
Do colleges give you grants based on your need automatically after applying for financial aid? Because I always thought all I'd be receiving is FAFSA money (which I heard is around $10,000)

Generally that is how it works if you file FAFSA (some students do not because they already determined they do not need an EFC as they will be considered "full-pay" students because of high family incomes). You file your FAFSA, send it to the schools in which you applied so they can see your EFC, and they award you the mix of need-based grants and merit awards/scholarships to get your out of pocket expense close to that EFC. Since you filed the FAFSA, the school will automatically assume you will be taking the max amount of student loans you can and will automatically count $5,500 of loans towards you paying in tuition from the loans (that way they give $5,500 less in need-based grants). Sometimes they guesstimate your Cal Grant award based on your GPA and EFC, but you'd need to make sure that what they say you will get via Cal Grant is the same as you believe you will be receiving.

So Meow, if you attend a public school then your max award for Cal Grant is near that $10,000 mark you are referring to ($9,048), but if you attend USF, then your max award is only $4,000.

If you don't fully understand something, or you have a specific question with what USF has on their FA award for you, then tyr looking at that other thread or ask here.                        

494. 
                            turtlerock, you... are truly amazing. You're seriously saving my butt so much right now. Thank you so, so much for taking the time out of your day to answer my questions >w< They're deeply appreciated.

Everything's starting to make sense now. It's a little sad that Cal Grant is only $4,000 for private institutions when obviously they cost so much more. In fact, it makes me angry that they basically cut the grant so freaking much... Ugh. I don't even know if I'll be able to afford a private institution anymore, now that it's been cut to basically nothing.

I come from a rather low-income family, and I'm also a first-generation college student, so I'm going to be requiring lots of assistance in terms of financial aid. Hopefully I'll be able to find a financially accessible university soon.

So if I'm understanding correctly, the FAFSA is filed by February, but I will be notified of the amount of money the schools are willing to give me before I have to choose a school, right?

Again, thank you so much for the help. You're amazing.                        

495. 
                            $4000? Max? In what interval, per year? Could you clarify it for me a bit, turtlerock?

I'm a little confused and concerned now. To my understanding:
I was just looking at the CalGrant site and I thought the most you could get via CalGrant A was $9223 (Source: Grants for College Students, College Grants, Grants for School California: Cal Grant awards) and this amount was given annually* for that proposed amount of years. And with Prop 30 passing, this shouldn't be on chopping block, right?

And what about the Pell Grant? Is it similar in pay out as the CalGrant? Because I thought they worked in essentially the same way, except at a federal level.

I probably shouldn't be looking too much into this before I actually fill out the FAFSA and get my FA package (Expected first week of April, right?:) )


*as implied by "How Much Money Are We Talking About? With a Cal Grant you can get up to $12,192 a year to pay for college expenses..." (Source: Free Money for College, Grant Money for College, College Grant - About Cal Grants)

Thanks again!:)                        

496. 
                            Well the thing is, if you look at the website turtlerock posted: California Student Aid Commission - 2012 Eligibility Changes as a Result of the 2012 Budget Act
It says near the middle...
"In 2013-14, the maximum Cal Grant A & B Tuition and Fee awards for new students at private for-profit institutions will be reduced from $9,223 to $4,000.
In 2013-14, the maximum Cal Grant A & B Tuition and Fee awards for new students at independent institutions will be reduced from $9,223 to $9,084."
Since USF isn't a for-profit institution, I believe it should be considered an independent institution? :o I'm not sure though :( 

497. 
                            Whoops. Apparently my eyes hovered pass that link. Sorry.

But okay. As far as I know, USF hasn't been tagged listed as a Private For-Profit, so it shoooould still be a private independent institution, correct me if I'm wrong. So that should only drop to a maximum of $9084, right?                        

498. 

meow443 wrote:
It's a little sad that Cal Grant is only $4,000 for private institutions when obviously they cost so much more. . . "In 2013-14, the maximum Cal Grant A & B Tuition and Fee awards for new students at private for-profit institutions will be reduced from $9,223 to $4,000.


Stimulations wrote:
As far as I know, USF hasn't been tagged listed as a Private For-Profit, so it shoooould still be a private independent institution, correct me if I'm wrong. So that should only drop to a maximum of $9084, right?

Hold it. Sorry for throwing you for a loop, but yes, USF is a not for profit institution, and the Cal Grant max award if attending there is $9048 per year.

I was completely overlooking that the cut in Cal Grant was to the for-profit schools such as ITT and Heald. Good clarification by the SacBee article here: California budget cuts Cal Grants at most private schools - Education - The Sacramento Bee
The article does note, however, that not for-profit private schools will see Cal Grant eligibility dropped another $1,000 in 2014 to $8,056.

Again, sorry for the confusion: USF is a not-for-profit and is still eligible for the $9,084 in 2013 ($8,056 in 2014).

meow443 wrote:
So if I'm understanding correctly, the FAFSA is filed by February, but I will be notified of the amount of money the schools are willing to give me before I have to choose a school, right?

Absolutely. So at the end of filing the FAFSA you choose which schools to send it to (you can resend to more schools later if you'd like, so long as it is sent before any specific school's deadline). The school receives this information and if they accept you, then they will also be sending a Financial Aid letter (via hard letter in the mail or an email through a school's admitted students' website) that details all your awards (merit scholarships, grants, loans, etc) and shows you a figure you will be expected to pay out of pocket for that year to attend.

Most often a student knows if they will not be attending a certain institution as soon as they receive the FA letter, since it may show an expected amount to be paid that the student knows he or she cannot come up with.

Also, again, it's important to understand that private schools (USF included) will place the maximum amount of student loans to your FA letter in an attempt to get yo closer to your EFC as per the FAFSA without having to give you as much grant aid (free money). For example, my EFC last year was 06000 or so and USF gave me an FA package that included grant aid, GI Bill, and $9,500 in loans (the max amount of loan I could take out) so that I ended up having to pay out of pocket about $5,500 - which was actually very close to the EFC from the FAFSA of 6000. But in reality, I was paying out of pocket for the $5,500 that year, plus the $9,500 loan (+ interest) that I would need to pay back later. Over the course of 4 years at USF I would have paid about $20,000 in cash to the school and would owe ~$43,000 in loans (assuming I received similar FA packages in years 2-4).

Some people may see my example as financially "doable" for them to attend USF - especially if you consider that USF allows for payment installments for your portion of tuition ($5,500 split up into a few payments that were due by the beginning of the next academic year) . Unfortunately, it was not "doable" for me and I was not able to attend solely based on financial reasons - which bums me out only now because I can afford it now only a year later, though I would still have to come to grips with knowing I would owe $43,000 after graduation.

Seriously though, after touring all the schools I did last year USF impressed me the most, and if I had to elect for $43,000 in loans to attend a school I was admitted to, it most certainly would have been USF. I'm now thinking about applying as a transfer there.

Back to Financial Aid: The Cal and Pell Grants really become the most 'bang for the buck' for low income students who attend CSUs as commuter students making the cost virtually free because of the lowest cost of tuition at that level - and some students get the same financial results at UCs, especially if they hunt for the outside scholarships.

Private universities are becoming the best bargain for high income families. Since they would not qualify for Pell grants or other need-based aid to begin with, they see that they end up paying the same price for a public school, like UCs, as they would for private schools. But at least at the private schools they have some (arguably) better amenities, so they often choose that route.

For a third time: really sorry about the confusion. Hope it's clear enough now.                        

499. 
                            Don't apologize, turtlerock. It's amazing that you're doing so much for us. We should be the ones repeatedly thanking you even if I'm starting to sound like a broken record :p

Unfortunately, I come from an extremely low-income family, but I don't like any of the public schools I applied for... And I have yet to visit USF, but I have visited the other privates I applied for, and I really do prefer them over public schools. Hopefully USF will be willing to give me a good amount of financial aid... And not too much in debts. This is still better than my initial impression; I didn't know there were such things as tuition grants, so I was definitely terrified at the thought of having $20k+ debts per year!

If we do both end up going to USF, hopefully we'll be able to meet so I can properly express my thanks for all your help in person :) 

500. 

Dayle Smith, associate dean of undergraduate studies at the School of Management, quit amid what some see as a tug-of-war between academic integrity and the desire to diversify the prestigious private school through aggressive recruitment.




Read more: USF official quits over China students - SFGate 

501. 
                            the school is not looking for that code word "diversity" they are looking for $$$$! I doubt that a school in san fran has a "shortage" of people of asian background applying .                        

502. 
                            When will we hear of university officials resigning over accepting all the application cheaters from China?  Manufacturing "elite" college applicants for US universities is a major industry in China.                        

503. 
                    did any1 apply RD to USF or am i the only one on here???                

504. 
                            I did! It's my number 1 school!!                        

505. 
                    any thoughts
quality of professors, internships, difficulty etc                

506. 
                            Son graduated with a BS in CS in '11 and little trouble finding a job in his field. He enjoyed his time at USF and has no regrets going there (he turned down UCSD, UCD, UCSB, Cal Poly, and SCU). I think it's what you make of it - a CS degree from any decent school along with good recommendations and a decent GPA will go a long way in helping you find employment upon graduating.                        

507. 
                            why did he choose USF out of all the other schools?                        

508. 
                            It turns out we did not qualify for CA in-state residency (it's a long story, but we live overseas and basically have no state which we can claim for tuition purposes) and could not afford the out-of-state costs. USF offered him a generous scholarship and he liked the idea of being in the city.
What if we had qualified for in-state residency? I don't know - he might have gone to UCSD or some other state school, but we don't think about that now. He may well go to grad school at a UC school.                        

509. 
                            Hi sarsfield, I'm about to enroll at USF in a few weeks for the spring semester. I was thinking because of the great location in the city that USF would have a lot of internships and job opportunities for their students, especially in downtown/ financial district in San Francisco. Your post worries me. Could you elaborate on how the job finding process went, and how your son is doing now (for example, does USF continue to help their graduates with job openings)?

Lisa                        

510. 
                    Hello! Does anybody know when USF will notify EA applicants of decision?                

511. 
                            I'm waiting for the EA results too, haha. On the website it says mid to late December (although I'm pretty sure you know this already :p), and I'm assuming they'll be out within this week, considering how the office of admissions should be having their winter break starting from next week until January.                        

512. 
                            I have been wondering the exact same thing. They said that they will try their best to notify us by late December, so hopefully we will find out by either this week or next. Can't wait! :) 

513. 
                            USF is sending me their decision over an international courier coz I live in Singapore. This is making me so anxious, I have to wait Dec 24 to know my decision. AHHHH!!!                        

514. 
                            Just received an email, accepted from New York!                        

515. 
                            thank you nikoru. D just checked and she is in, too!                        

516. 
                            YAY! Acceptees unite!                        

517. 
                            D is in as well--though when we checked yesterday, they said they would notify by snail mail.                        

518. 
                            Just got an email this morning at 8 saying I'm in! :) 

519. 
                            I just got my acceptance e-mail. YAY!                        

520. 
                            SO excited!! I just got my acceptance letter via email!!                        

521. 
                            Congrats everyone! Where are you guys from and what major are you going in for? I'm from NY and intended major of accounting with a minor in east asian studies and mathematics :) 

522. 
@calirunning. are you going to join the cross country/track team?  I'm guessing from your username that you like running. :)

I'm planning on majoring in Biology. What are everyone's stats?                        

523. 
                            29 ACT, 94/100 gpa, top 10% of class, AP's and Honors, good recs and essay, unique activities. Does anyone know when we find out if we get scholarships?                        

524. 
                            I'm majoring in International Business. 1890 SAT, ~3.57 weighted GPA, high school has no rankings. Moderate amount of APs, around 500+ hours of continuous community service, and I was talking to one of the teachers who wrote my letters of recommendation today and he said mine was easy to write, so I'm assuming it was an okay letter :)

I'm assuming we get notified of that through the mail, when the physical packet arrives? I'm not sure, but that's what happened with another private I was accepted into.

Either way, good luck to everybody still awaiting their decisions!                        

525. 
@iloverunning. I emailed the coach and filled out the recruitment form but i've heard no reply. I really want to keep running in college but I'm not that good, 5:24 for the mile, 11:44 for the 2 so I'm not sure if i'd make the team. Are you planning on joining the team?

I'm majoring in business administration and I'm from socal!

My stats were 3.84 GPA with AP's and Honor classes, and then an 1800 for the SAT and hardly any volunteer work. However, I think USF likes my school as last year everyone who applied got accepted.

@nikouru. I'm assuming we find out when the mail us our official letter of admission.                        

526. 
                    if you have a 3.5 and 1600 is there still a chance of getting in? with over 600 hours of volunteering and work experience with the city                

527. 
                            I think you have a good chance of getting in. I got in and my stats were only a little higher than yours (3.8 and 1690). Plus, they accept more people from the Bay Area, so your volunteer work is a good asset working in the city.                        

528. 
                            ok thank you and I live in southern california                        

529. 
                    Currently beating myself up over this totally stupid mistakes that I made, if I read correctly.

Submitted my EA application via the Common App on the 15th.

Was I supposed to mail anything to them? (Right now, a week later, everything is pointing towards YES)



I know USF has their own out-of-date application and the Common App, I'll be honest when I say I was confused for a bit since the instructions clashed and conflicted once or twice on the USFCA website.

It's because of this that I assumed that the physical mailing of things (such as the LoR) wasn't applicable for the Common App. (Considering how such things on the Teacher Recommendation Form for USF App and for the Common App are essentially the same thing)



I checked my application status, and it says they received my PS and my testing records, but not my transcript or my LoR. I emailed admissions asking them about it and they said to wait a week in case they were still processing or haven't received it yet. (Them saying they haven't received it yet should've been a red flag for me)

And then I read: University of San Francisco (USF) - Common Application

"Remember:  Once you complete the Common Application, be sure to send all supporting documentsEssay, Letter of Recommendation, Transcripts, Mid-year Report, Testing Records, and your Application Feeto our office."



Did I just ruin my EA chances? or even worse: my entire chance if I can't touch my application if I get deferred? (No clue how the deferment process works)

Thanks folks <3                

530. 
                            I also applied through CommonApp (did not send anything in through physical mail), and encountered the same problem as you did (with the LoR and transcript not showing up). After giving it a few days, I called their admissions office and asked whether what was going on, but the lady immediately checked my application while we were on the phone and said they received everything. The following day, my application status changed and stated they received my LoR and transcript. If I were you, I'd give them a call just to make sure they have everything.
My school won't even send physical material if there is a CommonApp application available, so... :( 

531. 
                            You do need to send your HS transcripts via snail-mail, but the LoRs and "Counselor Rec/Certification" can be done electronically by forwarding to those in which you want an LoR received from. There should also be a snail-mail option for the LoRs since not everyone will be able to do them electronically (you print out the forms for the individual and hand them that with an envelope with postage and the USF mailing address attached so they can send it on in once it is complete - it still needs to be received by the app deadline). I applied RD last year and verified my LoRs were electronically submitted on time (offering help to any of those who had trouble since the CommonApp isn't the easiest to navigate) and still a couple days before the deadline it showed that my transcripts were not received. I ended up hand-walking them in to my admissions representative on the USF campus, and he was totally understanding of the time crunch.

You will not be considered for admission (not even deferred) if you do not have all the required docs submitted by the deadline - they will consider your application as incomplete and you will instead have to apply regularly through RD.                        

532. 
                            Turtlerock, now I'm just really confused.

I'm looking at the application status check on the website right now. I submitted everything electronically (through CommonApp) - transcript, LoR, everything - but USF claims to have received my essay, high school transcript, LoR, and SAT scores by Nov 15.

It doesn't say anything in the status side, however, although I am unfamiliar with what it should actually say.

Should I still give them a call to confirm?                        

533. 
                            Meow, thanks for the ease of mind. I emailed them last week and they just told me to chill, but I think I'll actually call them tomorrow to see what's up.

Turtlerock, have I ever told you that you were last year's saint when it came to anything about USF? But what you said is pretty unsettling. Frim the looks of things, my LoR should be fine, but What worries me is that my counselor didn't do her part of the common app until the deadline(even though I assigned her at the beginning of the month), so there might be a chance that she hasn't even sent out of my transcript. Hopefully this isn't the case, but if it is, then it looks like I have to reapply RD because it's been a week past the deadline already so I can't do what you did(walking the transcript in. Jesus, that sounds horrible)

Meow, it looks like you're in a possibly tighter predicament than me if your school refuses to send snail mail. Hopefully it's just a misunderstanding and USF did get your transcript. I would call if I were you. No harm, no foul, I guess,.

Thanks you two!:)                        

534. 
                            Stimulations, I also e-mailed them earlier today.
As for the CommonApp, as long as your counselor submitted the secondary report, it should be fine. Double check on CommonApp whether or not she actually submitted it.
It's strange, however, since everything I submitted is listed as 'received' in the application status check on the website. Hopefully that means I didn't actually have to send anything into them physically!
Hopefully things will turn out fine for the both of us :) Best of luck! Let us know what happens!                        

535. 

Stimulations wrote:
Turtlerock, have I ever told you that you were last year's saint when it came to anything about USF?

Haha, I think some have mentioned to me before how helpful the information I posted last year was. I was applying to USF so I wanted a lot more info, but it seemed pretty dead here and I figured there had to be at least one other person who wanted info like I did.

I don't want to confuse about the different application sites (CommonApp vs the internal USF app status webpage). Everything I said above applied to the CommonApp. If anything on your CommonApp says it is incomplete or has not been done for a particular school by the application deadline, then chances are (I'm sure there could be some exceptions where the app is still valid) that the app will be considered incomplete and they will not review incomplete apps for admission. IF everything on the CommonApp is good, then all should be well (eventually) with the internal USF site - what happens is CommonApp uploads your docs and USF has to manually connect to the app to 'download' all your application materials - it's not an immediate automatic thing where as soon as the person submits stuff to CommonApp (LoRs, counselor school report, whatever) that it is in the laps of USF personnel. USF will eventually go in, see that everything was submitted on time, and download all your items to be reviewed for admission. If anything on your USF app status site shows incomplete (it will have a blank date for 'Received'), but it shows as done on the CommonApp, then the USF site should update within a few days to a week or so.

IF something is incomplete on the CommonApp, then it will need to be submitted before the deadline (I know it's passed by now), which is why I mentioned the example of handing it in (everything on my USF app status last year said it was received except my transcripts and the school confirmed they did not have them yet, though I know I sent them via mail, so I decided to hand them in personally).

I would say that by December 1st if your USF app status page does not match your commonapp, then that would be the time to contact the campus - and don't be shy about contacting your area's specific admissions counselor/rep (info can be found on USF's website) and ask about it. I've mentioned before that all the counselors are extremely willing to help and are understanding of some of the hurdles students face in submitting all the proper app docs (at least mine was).

Dec 1st would be the lastest I would wait though because the admissions counselors and reps DO go on Winter break by mid-December and won't return until almost mid-January.

Best of luck, hope that helps.                        

536. 
                            Seriously, turtlerock, you are amazing. Thank you so much for all the help. :)

CommonApp claims everything has been received and so does USF. What is the status area actually supposed to say? Is it just a marker for USF to know if they have seen it or not?

I've emailed my specific admissions rep, but she has yet to respond :(

Thanks so much again! :) 

537. 
                            Okay, you guys made me feel a lot better. According to the common app, everything is fine for me.

Meow, we should start a Turtlerock fan club if we both attend USF:)
And I think your application should be fine, actually.

Establishing a solid deadline such as December 1st really helped, thanks. It feels like I'm wandering in the dark,, but that deadline set some sort of ground.

I think I know my area rep too well. I don't think she likes me very much :( 

538. 
                            Seriously! :) I'd love to meet you if we both actually end up attending USF, haha.

I agree about the deadline :D with the admissions rep statement too... :( I feel like I've annoyed her so much she doesn't even respond to me anymore... this is bad LOL                        

539. 

meow443 wrote:
I've emailed my specific admissions rep, but she has yet to respond . . . I feel like I've annoyed her so much she doesn't even respond to me anymore


Stimulations wrote:
I think I know my area rep too well. I don't think she likes me very much

Bear in mind that there was just an extended holiday with Thanksgiving and the deadline for ED was a week before that, so this is actually probably the busiest time for the admissions people - you shouldn't be worried and they shouldn't be annoyed, it's their job to interact with prospective student and applicants and ensure that the app process is smooth and clear.

I agree, if both of you say that your CommonApp says you've submitted everything successfully before the deadline (and you've mailed anything else that couldn't be done via commonapp), then USF should be able to download all your materials.

meow443 wrote:
What is the status area actually supposed to say? Is it just a marker for USF to know if they have seen it or not?

If you're referring to the USF app status site, then there should be a date in the received column for each item (in rows). If it is blank, then they have not received (read: downloaded) that item yet. If there is a date, then they have downloaded it from your commonapp or received it in the mail.
Example:

Transcripts   l 11/27/12

Letter of Rec l 11/21/12

School report l (blank)

(This is what the layout at the bottom of the page looked like last year anyway, so if it's different let the thread know so there's no confusion).

In this example the School Report's date is blank, which indicates it has not been downloaded from USF yet, though this kind of thing should be rare as all the CommonApp items should all be downloaded at the same time, so almost all of the items on the USF App Status page should have the same date.

So to answer your question the short way, the status page is just to let you as the applicant know that USF has looked at your application.                        

540. 
                            YES! THEY REPLIED! MY APP IS FINE!!! :)))))))) Still think they don't like me very much. LOL. Maybe I just read @AdmissionsProblems too much. Such a huge weight off my shoulders. Hope everything turned out fine and dandy for you, too, Meow!:)

turtlerock, you're like Superman in USF's and SCU's forums...                        

541. 
                            ^Are you applying to SCU as well?                        

542. 
:( My counselor still hasn't replied to me LOL I THINK SHE REALLY DOES HATE ME OTL HELP
but i did call two days ago to tell them I was no longer taking the SAT and the woman who helped me was super nice and told me my application was complete so I'm good too ^ ^ Thank you guys so much! <3 You guys are amazing :) 

543. 
@turtlerock: Sort of, yes. It's really close to home, so I'd end up commuting everyday because of the financial opportunity that would be really hard to ignore (driving vs. room+board)

@meow: After I contacted someone at USF and they replied, I checked my Application Status and everything was updated to say when they received my transcript and my LoR. That didn't happen to you? But yaay for having your app sorted out!! I guess we're going to wait til circa Christmas time to see if all of our worrying has been worth it! :) 

544. 
                            Mine actually had the received dates a day or two after I saw this thread, but I got worried anyway, haha. Silly me. Same for you! :) I'm so nervous haha. Hope for the best for both of us! :) Thanks so much to you and turtlerock for all the help. <3                        

545. 
                    Could anyone tell me how competitive USF is ? Many people talk about colleges in the west but I barely see anyone mentions about USF ? Is it a decent school? I just received a brochure from it yesterday. The SAT range is like 1000-1200 :| 

546. 
                            USF in the west? Do you mean the University Of South Florida?                        

547. 
                            no i mean university of san francisco
so many abbreviations for the names of colleges :D 

548. 
                            Here are the admissions stats for the USF: (moderately selective, should get in if you have a B+/A- average)
67% acceptance
SAT Critical Reading: 510-620
SAT Math: 520-620
SAT Writing: 510-620
ACT: 22-27
GPA: 3.503
% graduated top 10% of class: 25.8
% graduated top 25% of class: 61.2
% graduated top 50% of class: 91.4

The Admissions Committee at USF is not purely numbers focused. They'll evaluate your full picture here, using your academic strengths and weaknesses along with your personal character strengths, essays, and recommendations to assess your suitability for admission. It's matchmaking. If you fit well in the USF community, you'll be welcome.

Very Important Factors: Academic GPA, Recommendations, Rigor of Secondary School Record, Standardized Test Scores, Character/Personal Qualities, First Generaton, Alumni/ae relations, Racial/Ethnic Status, Volunteer Work
Important Factors: Class Rank, Interview, Extracurricular activities, Talent/ability, work experience, level of interest

Want to know if you will fit in at USF? Here's what students say:

"The University of San Francisco is a smallish Jesuit school “in an urban setting” with a “very liberal” “social justice slant.” Global awareness programs and seminars are routine, and a strong community-service ethic permeates the atmosphere. Class sizes are small, and students report that their academic experience is “intimate and intellectual.” Some members of the faculty at USF “seem to just skate through the workday” and are “not necessarily the best teachers.” On the whole, though, “the shining star of USF is its professors.” They are “ridiculously generous with their time” and are “really the best reason” to enroll. Like at most Catholic schools, “you’re required to take everything from English to philosophy to religion” here. “The core curriculum is a *****,” but it does expose you to considerable wisdom. Beyond all the mandatory coursework, USF offers a breadth of options typical of a much larger university. Highlights include the business school and “a very popular nursing program.” Education is “also very strong,” and there’s a four-year Great Books program. Administratively, “the school is run quite well,” but there are “disgruntled types who like to make things difficult.” Also, “registration is frustrating at times,” and advising can be hit or miss. “I’ve had great advisers who have guided me through registration over the years,” says a math major, “but others aren’t as lucky.”"  "USF is home to “one of the most ethnically diverse schools in the country.” The Asian and Latino populations are especially high, and there’s a noticeable international contingent. According to many females, though, the ratio of women to men is “pitiful.” It’s “pretty hard to date or even hook up” if you are straight because “most guys are taken or gay.” “Students tend to stick with a small, close-knit group of friends,” but virtually everyone is “able to fit in easily in the USF community no matter how eccentric.” Except possibly conservatives. Liberal politics pervade, and USF “may not be the place for more right-leaning students.” Some students “dress in alternative or funky clothing” and are “experimental (with everything from sexuality and music to drugs).” “Many students are Catholic, but aren’t necessarily strictly practicing.” A lot of people smoke cigarettes. There are “science nerds,” “hippies,” and the occasional “shopping addict.” Some students are “outspoken and outgoing.” Others “have their iPods on all the time.” “There are a lot of super-wealthy kids” from Southern California. Others are on scholarships and loans “and barely making it.” “People are passionate. Some are lazy. A few are beautifully artistic. A bunch are athletic. A couple are phony. Some are damn smart. Others are pretty ignorant. But at least we got it all,” muses a sophomore." "“Housing is a catastrophe” at USF. Students feel “really crammed” and complain that the people in charge “just put people together with no thought to whether they are compatible.” There’s a nice gym, though, with a pool that “basically covers an entire city block.” Socially, “there is no sense of community.” “Student groups consist of only the hardcores,” and “the lack of school spirit can be quite a downer.” “Going to USF is definitely the nontraditional college experience because everyone is pretty much doing their own thing.” “Drinking is prevalent” and students “smoke a lot of weed,” but “there isn’t a big party scene other than little get-togethers in the dorms.” House parties are rare “and usually never work out.” On-campus activities are sparse, “but who would go anyway?” USF is located “in the heart of San Francisco,” and “there is always something going on” in this “vibrant,” “distracting” city. Most students “go off-campus on the weekends to explore” and “have adventures.” On sunny days, “the best place to be is either Golden Gate Park or the beach.” “Stellar museums, numerous theaters, national landmarks, shopping, world-class dining, funky art houses,” and pretty much anything else is readily available. “Getting around on the buses is super easy,” and public transportation passes are built into the tuition price. “The university is totally integrated into the city, and those who come to USF new to San Francisco will leave feeling like they belong here,” promises a senior."

Rank 	 List
#8	Great College Towns                        

549. 
                            hope this helps!                        

550. 
                            but is USF worth 33k tuition ? I'm not impressed at all                        

551. 
                            if you're not impressed, then it isn't worth your tuition.                        

552. 
                            Legend, things like acceptance rate, average scores and the other very detailed stats should tell you most of what you need to know about a college's quality. no strong US college has a 67% acceptance rate. Time to do some homework!                        

553. 
                            not necessarily, the University Of Chicago has a 35% acceptance rate although it is among the most selective in the country.....in comparison Case Western has a 70% acceptance rate and Michigan has a 50% acceptance rate even though they are among the best colleges in the US                        

554. 
                            Some USF students say that the school is just O.K. and overpriced.  Beautiful neighborhood, however.                        

555. 
                            lol I'm just asking if I can find any colleges in the west. besides UCB,UCLA,Stanford,USC or UWash,there is no choice for me. i don't like other UC cuz of personal preferences. so I think I will stay in the east :D 

556. 
                            Pierre, of course several factors must be considered together for a full picture. Chicago indeed has stats that confused those who did not account for self selection as the class of 2012 found out.                        

557. 
                            The UC system may well be the best public university in the world, while UCB and UCLA are at the top, the other campuses are outstanding as well.  Also look at University of San Diego, Santa Clara, Loyola Marymount.  If your looking for something challenging, look at Pomona or the Claremont colleges.                        

558. 
                            hmom5 sounds so ignorant,i hope you did not raise your kids like that.America has enough white trash that thinks highly of themselves.Just because a school has a high acceptance rate does not mean it is a bad school,you should do your homework instead of answering questions that you clearly do not know the answer to.                        

559. 
                    I was wondering what the general consensus is on the cost vs financial aid package of USF is? I come from an 80,0000 dollar a year household and the price tag for USF looks pretty steep. Yet, I very much want to attend a school in the Bay Area. My other schools of interest include: UCSC, SFSU (back-up), and UCR.

Finally, what is the religious tolerance like? I align myself with Buddhism more than anything and I understand that the school is of Jesuit values, so how would I be treated?
Thanks in advance!                

560. 
                            Look through the last 7 months (or more if you feel so inclined) of this thread:
http://talk.collegeconfidential.com/university-san-francisco/885176-usf-financial-aid-4.html
You probably missed it only because the default settings are to display posts that are updated only in the last 30 days. This can give you a rough estimate of how they have worked FA in the recent past.

My other schools of interest include: UCSC, SFSU (back-up), and UCR.

What is your proposed major? Each of these schools are excellent, with slight variations depending on major.

Finally, what is the religious tolerance like? I align myself with Buddhism more than anything and I understand that the school is of Jesuit values, so how would I be treated?

You will be treated like the great, honest, and equal person that you are. Believe me. I didn't attend USF, but I visited there constantly over the last year and while it's a Jesuit institution it's not a strict Catholocism you might be imagining. They do not require you to attend church or prayer - and true story is that most students don't while they attend there. The only time a religious aspect will be brought up (unless you yourself actively follow something within a club or org on campus) will be within the educational core reqs. This is the same for all Jesuit institutions. In a nutshell they believe in educating the whole person - mentally, physically, and spiritually. They will have elusive education requirements like "Religion and Ideas" or "Philosophy of Religion" where you can fill that req by taking a religious related class. This most often doesn't need to be a preachy, Bible reading and praising class. These can be as simple as "Religions of the World" where you just cover a brief history of each religion and how they developed their beliefs, or a more in-depth focus of a specific one, like Buddhism. You should have a choice from a list of classes to fill reqs like this and many others.

Best of luck.                        

561. 
                            Thanks for the reply! That was a bunch of helpful info. As for my major, I plan on double majoring in Anthropology (USF only has the minor) and Creative Writing (English or IS at USF). I want to become a journalist/writer of sorts, so varying myself in both writing and anthro should make me effective at it. History is another interest but I am unsure of it as of late.                        

562. 

I want to become a journalist/writer of sorts, so varying myself in both writing and anthro should make me effective at it. History is another interest but I am unsure of it as of late.

And this is where the culture surrounding the town in which each college is located will come into effect. SF will have a vibrant and fast paced environment for an aspiring journalist to work in. They have a great newspaper, The Foghorn, which I semi-reviewed (compared to another similar local Jesuit school) in posts 11 and 12 here: http://talk.collegeconfidential.com/university-san-francisco/1287556-usf-admitted-student-visit-2012-a.html
They also have a website.

While UCSC and UCR will have great writing programs (I've heard more about UCSC's than UCR's), I'm not sure there will be as much opportunity involved with those campuses compared to SF. Technically, there will be less students as well, so less competition for those positions (unless you base it off competing with the entire city). But if they end up being cheaper that USF, then they still deserve some serious consideration.

There are also a lot of differences in in geographic make-up of where each of these campuses is located. USF is somewhat small (in acerage) because it's in a condensed city. Definitely a big city feel with tons of people (off campus and right out of the immediate neighborhoods) and the bustling of busy busy. UCSC on the other hand, for example, literally feels like it's in the middle of a forest. We saw a deer just munching on some twigs about 10 feet away from us when I went on a tour there. They have their own bus system on the campus for students to get around easier. There are more students than USF, but they're spread out among more acerage, so it has the potential to feel like a small private. However, the city of Santa Cruz is a bit isolated (separated from the nearest major city, San Jose, by a 15-20+ mile stretch of two-lane highway, also feeling like it's in the middle of the forest). Weekend getways would be no problem since there is public transit to take you to these farther cities, but if you wanted the opportunity for writing or journalism internships during the school year, then they may be hard to come by. I've never been to UCR.                        

563. 
                    Hi there!

I have been admitted in both Santa Clara University (leavey) and University of San Francisco and I am certainly undecided. I am a junior international transfer student for Fall and it´s kind of difficult visit them both because I live in Europe... What should I attend? My mayor will be finance and I am gay if it helps. Hope it won´t be a problem...

Thank you for reading me and good luck to all!                

564. 
                            They're both fairly different campuses, but, no offense to either schools, they're fairly equal academically, give or take a few points depending on major. Both are pretty famous locally for their business schools, so that's sort of a moot point.
Then there's the local atmosphere. I live close to both and visit SCU pretty often, and I have to confess, if you take out all the bells and whistles coffee shops and parties, you don't have much. There's still San Jose and El Camino Real, but directly off campus isn't praiseworthy. USF is placed in the heart of the mecca of contemporary lifestyle and it's always bustling, which isn't always a good thing. It is relatively easy to get swept away though. If you feel that you need a place to settle down and not be tempted too much but still have options for jovial festivities when deemed necessary, SCU is great. If you feel you have the self-control to not succumb to the SF lifestyle, then USF might be a problem. Take this with a grain of salt though, because one can always learn to not succumb to SF-itis.
The thing about being in SF though is that you have 200 miles to network in, and there is sure a lot of networking done. If you plan on staying in California, the jobs/internships/people you'll encounter because of USF/being in SF are irreplaceable.
Both schools are known for their small class sizes, but SCU is known for boasting about it more. I don't exactly know the grounds of this, though. SCU has a better faculty:student ratio, but USF is said to have smaller class sizes, but it's not like you have to worry about that being a transfer Finance student.
Oh, and there's financial aid. but that's your own personal worry. sorry :c

Considering how local both schools are to me, I know a lot of people that have been in relatively the same predicament as you. They've all said that the environment around them and how they utilized it played a huge role in their decisions. That, and aid packages. I can attest that most of them are happy with their decision though, since SCU and USF are both prestigious and wonderful institutions in their own respects.                        

565. 
                    What are my chances of getting into the nursing program, which I know is impacted. I also, know that the admissions is holistic so I hopefully with good recommendations and essay....

Transfer student from a Community College:
GPA: 3.5
Recommendation: 2 teachers
What will be a killer essay
Work on a Nursing floor (part time position, but I am always picking up hours every chance I can so it is almost full time. I e-mailed admissions and they said that having no ECs when you support yourself this way is fine, but I still worry about it.)

Thank so much!                

566. 
                    I recently got admitted to USF's BSN.

Does anyone know how good exactly is USF's nursing program relative to other universities, and what makes it "stand out" from other nursing schools?                

567. 
                    If you did, how much aid did you qualify for?                

568. 
                            I got around 25, 000. May i ask how much you got? I'm surprised because this doesnt even cover half of my cost :( 

569. 
                            I have an efc of 0 and received a bit less than camach81, very unfortunate ... were you a freshman or transfer? Have you tried appealing it yet?                        

570. 
                    Hey all,

I got accepted into USF a couple weeks ago, and I am just wondering if anyone studying there could tell me what it's like? If I do go there I plan to study Business Admin.

How are the classes there? Are the class sizes really that small?

What's the walking distance from dorms to classes?

How are the academics and the teachers?

What's the workload like?

What's the nightlife like?

What happens on weekends? And what do you guys usually do after class?

I would really appreciate any insight into the University of San Francisco. :) 

571. 
                            Don't know much about USF ,but as a native of SF ,it can be foggy and cloudy much of the year and quite COLD (windy but in the fifties .) The warm weather is usually Sept and OCT.There is no humidity ,which is a big plus . There isn't much to do in the immediate area.The nearest shopping area would be Laurel Village ,which has some nice coffee shops and high end grocery stores .  The transportation is plentiful-good bus system nearby .                        

572. 
                            Busy, I'm not a current USF student (only admitted), but I can give some observations from the Admitted Students Event from a couple weeks ago. I'm also going there again at the end of this month to check out a few more things.

Class sizes: My tour guide there (a senior and CS major) said he only had 1 class during his time so far at USF that was over 50. It was an introductory (basic) class that ALL science majors were required to take (chem, bio, comp, etc). As with any school, the higher the class division you are taking, the less students will be in the class.

Walking distance: The campus is actually split up into two sections with a residential block separating them: the main campus, and Lone Mountain. Main campus dorms house Freshman and Sophomores, while Lone Mountain houses upperclassmen. Both sections have dorms AND classes, but the distance will really depend on your major as their classroom locations are arranged by subject, like most other schools. For example, if you're a Freshman business major, your dorms and business classes are separated by just one building (on the main campus), but once you become a Junior, you may have to walk a bit farther. The good thing is that there is a dining hall on both parts of campus as well so you would never have to go too far if you have the munchies.

Academics and teachers: I obviously can't say to much here as I haven't been in too many of their classes. I did attend a business class during the Student Visit Event with a review here: http://talk.collegeconfidential.com/university-san-francisco/1287556-usf-admitted-student-visit-2012-a.html

I am also considering attending their Shadow Program in the future - where you sit in on a class at USF and have lunch with students and faculty from that class or department. If I do, I'll post my review of that here as well so keep the look out.

Workload: Ditto to above.

Nightlife: I don't live in SF so I can't mention any specific pubs or clubs, but nightlife ON CAMPUS was touched upon in my review as well. On weekdays students usually come up with their own quasi-events like comedy skits in the dorm communal lounges or watching movies or baking there too. Weekends - I dunno for sure as a student, but I can imagine that gives more leeway for travel and such. There's TONS to do in the city itself let alone if you venture a ways out (Napa Valley Wine Train, SJMOMA, or something similar). I am told, and this was reiterated during the Admitted Students Event (and my review) that public transportation in the city is excellent and students at USF ride all city transportation for free. The city itself is heavy on the arts with many many film festivals, galleries, and art shows.

Weekends and after class: Ditto to above.

Hope some of that helps.                        

573. 
                            Dude, thanks so much for that insight into USF. Im having a hard time choosing between USF and Pepperdine, your post just made it harder!

Cheers                        

574. 
                            What are the finances? Is one giving more FA over the other?

A major social/academic difference between USF and PU is the religious reqs at PU. You don't HAVE to attend church every week, but if you don't, then you will be required to take extra classes that focus on certain current events and how religion plays a focus in those events. USF does not have this requirement, though they embrace the Jesuit education - which is another form of spiritual enlightenment.

Are you willing to do that req if you attended PU?                        

575. 
                    so i got accepted to usf with a major of fine arts!
did anyone else get accepted with this major?

and also, im trying to decide between usf and ucsd depending on which school has a better art program/department... so i was wondering does anyone know if usf has strong art? any input would be nice, thanks!                

576. 
                    My d has been accepted in to the nursing programs at USF, U. Portland and Seattle U.  She loves both Seattle and Portland (yet to visit USF).
It's ultimately her choice ... but we want her to be well informed.

Do any of the above have a better reputation?  USF is the most expensive, followed by Portland and Seattle is the cheapest ... is there a reason.

Thanks for any advice ...                

577. 

USF is the most expensive, followed by Portland and Seattle is the cheapest ... is there a reason.

At a recent info session at USF they mentioned about their nursing program that it is the only one in NorCal that gives students real hands on expereience during their studies. Not sure if that's even true, but that's what they said. It's one of the biggest programs at USF and somewhat competitive.

I've never looked into Portland and Seattle's programs. Are you in the WA area? Would she be able to stay living at home if she attended either of the latter? Naturally I always go with lowest cost - which isn't exactly indicative of the quality of the program. Is one cheaper than the other because of scholarships or grants i the FA package?                        

578. 
                            We are actually in the Bay Area (south of San Francisco) - either way she'll be living in dorms.  Seattle & Portland are slightly cheaper tuition and their merit awards are higher.  From what I've researched all 3 schools look very similar .... I was interested in other peoples input.
Both Seattle & Portland both put the students out to do clinics in the surrounding neighborhoods ...                        

579. 
                    Hey! What are the odds of getting into USF as a biology major if you're wait listed?                

580. 
                            Honestly, not very high. I myself was put on the wait list out of high school and continually showed my interest by emailing my admissions counselor and even then was not taken off the wait list. My advice, keep your options open incase you don't get in.                        

581. 
                            when do they notify you? hopefully its before may 1st.                        

582. 

hopefully its before may 1st


Highly unlikely. More like right after May 1st. Sorry, but they will wait until right after the deadline to see who officially accepted their offer of admittance so they know solid figures on who to call back and take from The List.

The best advice ATT is to just go about your business as if you've been rejected and it's not an option. Work with things you know to be fact (i.e. your other acceptances).                        

583. 
                    Do they send you snail mail first or do they email you first, I'm confused about how the process works. Also, I attempted to log into USFConnect too many times and was unable to log back in, it says something about contacting the system admin which I have no idea who to call. I tried emailing USF but no reply back.                

584. 
                            I was emailed first and then received my packet in the mail a week or so later. When you get the admissions packet it will have the ID and stuff you will need to log into USFConnect. Hope that helps!                        

585. 
                            schermeg is absolutely right. You will be emailed a congratulations and then snail mailed a welcome packet approximately a few weeks later. In the packet will be included the official acceptance letter signed by someone presumably important and on the bottom of that letter will be a USFConnect user ID and Password that you will use to sign in.                        

586. 
                            Do you know when the last day for decisions to come out yet? and how you know if you did not receive admittance, do they send you an email & snail mail as well?                        

587. 
                            I am also puzzled as to the nature of admissions at USF. I am still to hear back from them and I haven't seen or heard of any solid date that they will let you know your decision by. Maybe this is a very bad sign but I am not sure as to when i should email them to get the info.                        

588. 
                    What did you receive from your financial aid package for University of San Francisco? Please include EFC, household income, merit scholarships/grants/etc., total $ due if you can. Is USF overall very generous when it comes to money? (Compared to UC's...?)                

589. 
                            ambitions, I made a continuation of the 2010 thread along the lines of what you're seeking. Please refer to http://talk.collegeconfidential.com/university-san-francisco/885176-usf-financial-aid.html to view a couple FA packages from this year. You will need to skip to page 4. It may be more beneficial to keep all the years lumped together so families can make comparisons over multiple years, like if it seems FA has gone down over the course of a period of time.                        

590. 
                            Alright, thanks!                        

591. 
                    I am a transfer student that applied as a Nursing Major, does anyone know when the decisions come out for us?                

592. 
                            I got my acceptance today but I'm not a nursing applicant. Good luck!                        

593. 
                            raw, at teh Admitted Students event last week, there were a few transfer students asking questions, so I'm assuming they were there because they were already admitted. They must be notifiying transfers already. You may want to send an email to the Admissions Office or to your AdRep to be sure.                        

594. 
                            I got an admittance from USF the past Friday. :) 

595. 
                            yup! I sent my app on the deadline date Jan 15 and got admitted on Feb 15 as a psych major with a 2.9 gpa                        

596. 
                    I understand that USF is a rolling admissions school. I was wondering if anyone has gotten an acceptance or notification from USF yet? If accepted, what was your GPA and SAT/ACT score? Thanks...It will help ease my mind (super worried).                

597. 
                            If you applied RD you will find out mid-late march. IF their admissions is rolling then I would imagine that they send them out in that time frame. I didn't think that they were rolling. I made a spreadsheet of all my schools and the dates/date they are supposed to notify. USF is the most vague.                        

598. 
                            I applied RD and I got an email telling me that I'm accepted but I haven't received my admission packet yet. Also the reason that I got the email is cos I've been in contact with my admission counselor throughout the process. My SAT score is 1790 and I have no clue about my gpa cos I studied in the uk so not sure about how that works :) 

599. 
                            I also applied RD and have received the email of acceptance. I received the packet in the mail a few days later (couple weeks ago now).  I too was in extensive contact with my AdRep just prior to the decision and had several phone convos and a visit to them right before as well. So I guess I was fresh on their mind.

cold is right though. USF seems very equivocal in their admission notification dates. Perhaps a call to your adrep or the admissions office will clear it up? I originally thought it was odd that I was told a decision so quickly and thought that maybe they considered my app EA somehow.

Anyone else care to shed some light?                        

600. 
                            Wow, I might call them then. When did you guys submit your RD applications? I know I submitted my common application December 5th.                        

601. 
                            In mid-december i think                        

602. 
                            Calling never hurts.

I thiiiiiiiiink I submitted my app mid-December as well. It seems so hazy now, but I'm 99.92314583726% sure it was before X-mas.                        

603. 
                            I applied RD and got in, for business management. Received email acceptance, i should get the letter by mail in a few days. I am an international student. :) 

604. 
                            I received an email today confirming my acceptance :)

I applied towards the end of December, with an ACT score of 28 and an unweighted GPA of 3.7. The email said that I'd receive a packet in the mail within a few weeks containing more information.                        

605. 
                            I applied after January 15th (the priority deadline) and got an acceptance letter today. I'm a transfer though.                        

606. 
                            Cold, you ever end up making a call to see where your app is?                        

607. 
                            yay!!!! got into USF just today! :) is anyone from the east coast?                        

608. 
                            Omg :( still nothing. Im losing hope! Was anyone deferred??
They said they are sendin out decisions soon in march!!                        

609. 
                            hey can you guys post what your stats are / what major / why you think you got in.
that would help me a ton. thanks :) and it would help others too.                        

610. 
@turtlerock not yet, I am going to call tomorrow. (Monday)                        

611. 
                            good luck to everyone
and congrats on getting in                        

612. 
                    Usf seems pretty cool. My teachers who went there always say how they love it. They said it's pretty chill and similar to my current high school (Archbishop Riordan). Before, the max scholarship was 15k, so I was surprised when my packet said they're offering me 20k. That's pretty darn helpful for my family. Economically, usf is my best bet right now. However, only their website says only early action students can get this. I just turned in my application in January. Do you think they ll take my scholarship and lower me to 10k just because of when I applied. I really do think I deserve it, but i'm not sure if I'm going to get it still.                

613. 
                            I am sure if they said you could have it then it's yours.                        

614. 
                            I'm thinking it might be a glitch. I read that this one school had a glitch and sent acceptance letters to everybody.                        

615. 
                            Santa Clara University recently had a glitch where they REJECTED everyone, so all things considered, I think tallying that sort of thing isn't indicative of how FA may be affected. The only way to know that is to call and ask the FA office.                        

616. 
                    So I was accepted to USF for this coming fall. I applied here as sort of a safety in case I don't get into UC Berkeley and my boyfriend does. I was wondering, does anyone know anything about the social atmosphere? I don't care about the party scene or drinking or anything like that, but I would like to know if friends (of the opposite sex) are allowed to stay overnight in the dorms? I know USF is a Jesuit school, but I'm not religious, so I don't know about their guest policies. Any info would be helpful. Thanks!                

617. 
                            USF has coed dorms so I don't think they would be too strict on guests of the opposite sex DURING THE DAY. I'm pretty sure that's what was mentioned while I was there, but you can always double check with housing or whoever via phone/email. Late night, though, might be a different story. I know that students frequently have little get togethers that last late into the night in the residential lounges during the week (they play music, hang out, cook, watch movies, hold other random social events, etc). Hopefully a current student can add in here. . . I view USF as being Jesuit, but come on, they're almost smack dab in the middle of SF. If they were strict and didn't like a lot of what they saw, they wouldn't have stayed.                        

618. 
                    I have been deferred as you probably know. USF is still my top choice. I would do anything to go there.
I have visited twice and I have shown interest through a letter of interest, countless emails, and of course extra rec letter.
But at this point, I feel like I still won't get in. I'm kinda losing hope , and faith. I
I want to know what I can do to get in now. I want to know what you think helped you get in. The stress of not knowing the decision is killing me, I often cry for hours and hours for no reason and get no sleep .                

619. 
                            Hey no one cares??????
Bump                        

620. 
                            There isn't much you can do except wait it out. On their website it says that official notifications come out in late/mid march, on here though some people have reported RD acceptances already. I am still waiting on my notification and I applied RD so I am a little confused, but the best we can do is wait and pray.  It sounds like you have expressed a lot of interest, the ball is in their court now. I called yesterday and they said my application was still in processing. They receive many applications I would imagine they probably have a record number this year like many private schools. Just be patient.                        

621. 
                            Ok :( ugghhhhhh                        

622. 
                    I applied to USF for early action a month ago and the website said that the result comes out on December 15th but I still haven't gotten any email nor is there any information on my application status. Did anyone else get their result for USF early action yet?                

623. 
                            When I contacted the admissions department to make sure they had everything they said the decision should come in mid to late December.                        

624. 
                            It's already mid/ late december lol.
Idk I'm just all asdfghjkl about college acceptances                        

625. 
                            anyone heard back?                        

626. 
                            nope, not yet ):                        

627. 
                            Got an email today saying I got in! Anyone apply for nursing? I got the email from USF stating i got in but it doesn't say if I got in as a nursing major.                        

628. 
                            I got an email today and I'm in!                        

629. 
                            me toooo!!!! FINALLY!                        

630. 
                            I applied for nursing as well and received my letter of admittance today! :) I think you get in for the major you apply for, hopefully?                        

631. 
                            is it only nursing that found out? i applied for a different major and haven't received anything yet                        

632. 
                            I don't think so. I'm sure you'll be getting an email in a couple of days :) 

633. 
                            I applied as a Computer Science major and I got my acceptance e-mail today.                        

634. 
                            Some of you received a letter and others received email?  I'm nervous because I didn't get an email yet.                        

635. 
                            I got an email yesterday. They said my mail will be coming soon.
Did anyone who got an email/mail have it say on there that you got a scholarship?                        

636. 
                            I just received my packet today and it states that I have been accepted into their nursing program! There was another letter that said I was granted a scholarship as well! I ope everyone else gets theirs' soon!! Congrats everyone!                        

637. 
                            I only got an email so far, and it says nothing about scholarships..It'll probably say something in the packet..I hope haha                        

638. 
                    I just got in as a transfer student for fall, and if I decided to enroll I would like to live on campus. Does anyone know if there is a specific transfer housing community, or if it's mixed? I was looking through the housing info they sent me but it's not too informative. Any transfers out there, where do you live? Oh and I will be a junior level transfer if that makes a difference.                

639. 
                            I also got accepted as a transfer student for the fall of 2012. I haven't got the packet sent me yet but I've been looking on the USF website and Im thinking we'll be assigned to housing with other juniors. Btw I live in Columbus, Oh.                        

640. 
                            Mikali, while I was on the Admitted Students Tour there were a couple transfer students that asked that exact question when we toured the residence halls. They were informed that they would be housed in the upperclassmen dorms and be mixed with the current standing traditional upperclassmen, no transfer only dorms, but you will not be stuck in frosh dorms either.                        

641. 
                    I was deferred:/
Did anyone who was deferred get in!
Please post your stats! Thanks                

642. 
                            wow people...
can you post stats if you got in or tell me if you're deferred
im dying inside                        

643. 
                    I plan to attend the USF Admitted Student Visit on February 18th.  To make up for the lack of complete inactivity and information on this subthread, I'll post a full report of my experience here. The email says participants will meet USF students, faculty, and staff, learn about academic programs, join a classroom lecture, look at study abroad opportunities, take a campus tour and possibly interact with some clubs on campus.

I think they have a few other dates available for later in April.

Anyone else planning on attending? Fell free to share your thoughts here too.                

644. 
                            I might go, but right now I'm not sure.
I wish more people would post though!

Did anyone else join the Facebook group? :) 

645. 
                            What's the link to the Facebook group?                        

646. 
                            I'm not sure if we're allowed to post links, but search for The Official University of San Francisco Class of 2016 

647. 
                            FYI for everyone: you do not need to RSVP if you decide to go at the last minute. They will have registration for the event at 8:00 a.m. the morning of so you would still make it in time for the 9:00 a.m. start time. Not sure how they'll show us a class lecture on a Saturday though.

Lunch will be served and parking is available on campus for no cost and no permit.                        

648. 
                            Awesome! Thanks.                        

649. 
                            I'll try to put this in some sort of order and there was probably a lot more said that I can't recall so just ask here or PM me and I'll let you know if it was covered. The only other college event like this that I have attended was the one for Santa Clara University a couple months ago, which is also a private Jesuit LAC, so I'll note some comparisons when I see them.

So the event started at 9:00 am and the student agenda (they had a separate one for parents) went like so:
Welcome
Campus tour
Student panel (choose one event from the given list)
Academic class previews (choose one from the given list)
Lunch and academic/student organizations fair

Welcome: For the 'welcome' portion there were what seemed like at least a few hundred students and families placed in a huge conference room. Typical concept, with speakers and overviews about the Jesuit tradition of education and such. The seating set up was a mix of round tables and regular chairs in rows. This allowed those who were a bit shy sit at the round tables face to face with other prospective students and kinda force them to interact or be subject to some awkwardness. Fr Privett spoke and was a tremendous speaker, as I hoped he would be as he's the University President. He said one quote that I kind of liked: "The city (San Francisco) is an extension of the classroom. Like the school, it bodes to the curious, adventurous, and entrepreneurial". He mentioned that the school was dedicated to diversity and threw out some figures - 57% of students are of color, but I took a scan around the room and I would have guessed that 80% of the prospective students who attended were white. Hm. He also mentioned something to the effect of 'Jesuits were running schools before Harvard was founded.' Then I thought to myself 'And look where Harvard is now.' Hm #2. The rest of the time was interesting as they read a few of the essays that were submitted in apps by admitted students for the incoming class.                        

650. 
                            Campus tour: Okay, so once the welcome concluded the parents and students were to split up for the rest of the time until lunch. There was one major gripe for me in this: the parent's schedule included a presentation session on financial aid and the student's did not. I thought that was a little biased of the school. Yes many parents pay and support their children going to college, but most students also take out loans to pay for a portion and I thought it would have been beneficial to the student if the school included some sort of counseling/info session on that sort of thing.

But to get to the tour - our guide was a senior CompSci major and comedy club enthusiast. So he was smart AND funny. Really a great guy though.

He pointed out the area currently under construction. They are building an entirely new Science wing for science classes and such. There is a solid green wall covering view of any unsightly work being done and they even decorated it in planted flowers and such. He showed us a small area called 'The Amphitheater'. Pretty cool little half circle seating area outside complete with an arch up front the he said was from a 14th century Spanish monastery. He said they often have little plays randomly for the students to watch (they as in the theater club/group). We passed the library (but did not go in it, but we saw other tours going in) and he mentioned a place called 'The Atrium' connected to it. It's a 24/7 quiet study area. (I later split off on a few minuted time between events and checked the library and atrium out for myself. HUGE. I'm sure they have all the library stuff there and I know they can order any requested work if they do not already have it. The quiet study area was huge too and had really comfortable seating and tables that seemed like they would totally work out for just getting away). Next we walked through the St Ignatius church. Wow, it was huge and ornate. Wayyy more exhilarating than the one at Santa Clara. It's bigger and has more notion of grandeur with huge stained glass windows and marble floors and railings. Looked stunning. I'm not religious, but I like great architecture. From there we walked over to Koret Health and Rec Center (the gym). That too was huge. He said it used to be a high school and they bought it and converted it into the gym. My wife (who is a Santa Clara University alum) said that it blew SCU's gym out of the water. Quite literally as it seems because the indoor pool is bigger than Olympic size. Santa Clara has an outdoor pool. They had a huge array of basketball courts - and none of those ones are even used by the BBall team. They practice and play on an entirely different court in another area. All this means that you are mostly guaranteed to get a court or pool lane when you want one. I didn't see the hours posted, but I know it isn't open 24/7. I think it opened at like 6 am and closed late in the evening. It comes complete with dance studio, cardio room, weight room, and boxing room. He also mentioned that the soccer field right next door has it's turf made of recycled sneakers so it's environmentally friendly/safe. Don't worry, it's not black. It's still green.                        

651. 
                            He talked about campus safety for a minute. He mentioned there are emergency call boxes throughout the campus that go directly to 24/7 campus safety officers. I personally noticed emergency alert buttons place in the hallways of the residence halls too. He said there is a shuttle service for late at night too. If you're in SF and you've been drinking or otherwise don't feel it's safe to walk or take public transit back to your dorm, then you can call the shuttle number associated with the school and it will come pick you up and drop you off at the dorms. Service is available until 1 am on weekdays and 3 am on weekends. He also mentioned that students are offered 12 free psychological counseling sessions per semester to talk about anything and relieve stress or dump some depression.

Speaking of transportation . . . it was mentioned more than once in a bad joke that there is no parking problem at USF because there is no parking at all. They said that parking is limited and is first given to faculty and staff, then disabled students, then there is a lottery for the remainder. It's usually a very low number of them and they cost  lot of $ if you do get one. However, each student is given a pass making city public transportation absolutely free.

Back to the tour. We passed the Fromm Center which he explained was a center where retired professors come on the weekends and give classes for free and for no credit, just to continue teaching. I thought that was pretty cool. We came to what they call the university center. It basically has the main cafeteria on the second floor and the bookstore/game consoles/study area on the first floor. They had fireplaces (fake, but still a nice touch) going in the study areas and they had t.v.s set up to play videogames on or just hang out and watch cable. The bookstore was about the same size as Santa Claras, but I found that it was more organized and looked well kept. Much easier to find books and view what they have this way. We walked through a residence hall, but I didn't pay too much attention since I'm married and will definitely be staying off campus. The rooms all looked like 'doubles' but I don't know if they had others. The occupants said that you can decorate or otherwise arrange your rooms pretty much however you want. They also said that there is a matching program when you sign up for housing to find like roommates (quote: 'like m*a*t*c*h.com'). Upperclassmen stayed at other residence halls with other upperclassmen. Laundry facilities were downstairs. $1 to wash and another $1 to dry. Free would have been better. He said that there is a website where you can go on and see if there is a washer or dryer currently open so you don't have to go all the way down stairs to find out. We walked into one of two of the lounges. It had a pool table and relaxing furniture. It included a little kitchenette and cooking utensils can be rented for use. The 2nd more formal lounge had a piano.                        

652. 
                            Academic Panel: Offered events for the next time block included residence life, study abroad overview, leadership and campus activities, and non-varsity sports opportunities. I went with the campus activities. The presenting student panel included three current students (one was the LGBTQ school student rep, another was the black student union rep, and the third was a student involved in animal advocacy and other clubs). It was pretty much just a Q&A; session. Some things that were covered: at orientation, student will be split up by major and will meet with an academic adviser and all the other incoming students of that major. The university's theater group (College Players) isn't exclusive to just arts majors. Anyone can audition for them. Every club on campus is required to do a community service project once every semester to be eligible for school funding. Tuition includes an $82 fee for student activities which is pooled for all of the clubs to share throughout the year. School newspaper is all student ran and is easy to get involved. Internship opportunities can be viewed online, but at the UC (University Center) they have their career center which will obviously help with resumes and interviews, but they will also go out and search for a specific internship if you're looking for one that isn't posted on the site. For example, if I wanted to intern at a local politician's office, but there wasn't a specific opening posted, they would help find a contact there and call for the student to see if there are opportunities available. Greek life is VERY small at USF. They currently have 3 sororities and 1 fraternity, but the student government is working to get more on campus. The LGBTQ rep said something towards the end that I liked: "Even if everyone at USF doesn't necessarily show school spirit and pride, they all do show spirit and pride at being a student and in such are more inclined to help their peers as students."

Academic class preview: These were set up to simulate what a class would be like at USF. SCU did not have an equivalent to this during their event. Again from  list of choices in the time block were a class on the immune system, music, maximizing your odds on a game show, environmental studies, urban agriculture, nursing, and quantitative business analysis. Since I might be switching to a business major, I went with the last one. The professor, Mouwafac Sidaoui, is the Program Director of the joint Master of Global Entrepreneurship and Management. Despite the 'knock you unconscious' title, the class was a bit entertaining. The professor was a great speaker and did a great job on making the bridges between points in his lecture. We did a few exercises which included contemplating how many ping-pong balls we could fit in the classroom, and went over an equation involving a business model on purchasing cars. Some questions were asked in the end. One was "For the business program at USF, should a student be running a Windows or Mac platform?" He said it really varied from professor to professor, but he had some good points. He said that he has a Mac, but he uses VMWare a lot for the Windows compatibility. USF will give the student VMWare and some other software for free (not including Office for Mac) and that he teaches with what the industry is using. He notices a lot of younger business people are using Mac, but that Windows is still predominate in business.                        

653. 
                            Lunch and organizations fair: I'll skip the food review since I don't think that's the type of food that would be offered in the dining hall. It was just some pre-wrapped  sandwiches and bags of chips etc. The dining hall on the second floor of the UC, however, did look awesome and the student government reps said they are always working to improve the food. I noticed there was an extensive article on the campus food in this week's newspaper (Picked one up on the way out. Sadly, while the articles looked more in depth and relevant that The Santa Clara, it didn't have much variety in sections ((general section and sports)) with it and didn't really show small campus blurb/statistical stuff like recent safety issues ((thefts or what have you))  ). After eating you could walk around where they had tables set up to represent current student academic and non-academic organizations. Not all clubs were there and nothing really piqued my interest so I did some more personal side tour stuff and left to go to the SFMOMA to see some new exhibits that were featured in this upcoming week's TIME. Took me about 10 minutes total to get to Fifth and Mission parking garage and walk the 2 blocks to third, but I'm sure it would have taken quite a bit longer on public transit. Oh, for those who don't know, USF is located right next to Golden Gate Park, and the GG Bridge. Beautiful area.

Sooooo, I think this concludes it. I didn't get to speak with anyone about financial aid unfortunately, but I'm going to call and make a personal appointment.

Hope this gave a little insight to those making decisions.                        

654. 
                            Correction on some of the newspaper stuff (San Francisco Foghorn): It DOES include more than 2 sections. News, Opinion, Scene, and Sports. The layout was a little different for me, so I failed to notice when it transitioned from one section to the next. But they, in fact, do not have a little 'safety watch' article/section for those types of alerts like The Santa Clara does. BUT they do have a summary of the decisions made at the most recent university Senate meetings. Huge plus. SCU does not have that.

And correction about one of the students on the Q&A; panel: the second was the Students of Color Representative, not BSU.                        

655. 
                            Wow! ThNk you so
Much                        

656. 
                            MOMA haha... lucky                        

657. 
                    Hey just wondering if there are any current political science majors out there at USF. How is the program? Be honest!                

658. 
                            Sorry, cold, the USF subforum doesn't seem to be as lively as SCUs and others.                        

659. 
                            haha i see this....                        

660. 
                            cold, I was admitted to USF for Political Science, and although I plan to change my major after the first semester if I go there, I'll still ask about their PoliSci program this weekend at the Admitted Students Visit since, technically, that would be my intended major first coming in. I'll give you the full dig on what they tell me. I'll try to ask students and staff/faculty.                        

661. 
                            Awesome!  TY                        

662. 
                            cold, none of the tour guides were polisci majors, and it was a Saturday so there weren't any particular students walking around either. I stopped by the Politics Department offices, but they were locked because, again, it was Sat and no one could have been expected to be there then. At the end of the event, I saw that the College of Arts and Sciences had a booth set up for students to ask questions so I asked about the Politics program. A History and English professor were there, and while they did not teach politics subjects, they know some of their current students majoring in politics and gave me some information based on that.

Basically the things they told me we that the depth of the politics experience depends on the individual student. They have students that just do their studies and then that's it, but they also have students that have been involved in the occupy movement and other recent events, gaining detailed experience in those. It makes the student be a little more proactive, but it is true that San Francisco is one of the more liberal cities in the nation and therefore their politics seems a little more active. Of course, there are internships provided to the students and a lot of the faculty will email opportunities to their students. USF also has a study abroad program in connection with American University in DC where the students do a semester there. Almost EVERY university has the exact same program (usually called the DC Internship, or DC semester or something similar) so this wasn't something exclusive, but at least they do have it. I didn't notice on the list of campus organizations if there was a 'College Republicans' or 'Democrats' group, but new groups can always be formed by incoming students.

Hope that clears a little bit up about politics dept at USF for you.                        

663. 
                            Awesome, thanks so much for taking the time to post all of that information. I hope others will find it as useful as I have.                        

664. 
                    I applied to University of San Francisco through common app and when it asked for the ACT scores, it said to input the best scores even if it was from different test dates. So does that mean USF superscores the ACT?                

665. 
                            I don't think so

http://www.usfca.edu/results.html?cx=009000563526072549411%3Abmq5fndvvr8&cof;=FORID%3A11&q;=superscore+ACT&sa;=&siteurl;=www.usfca.edu%2Fresults.html%3Fcx%3D009000563526072549411%253Abmq5fndvvr8%26cof%3DFORID%253A11%26q%3DACT 

666. 
                    I am a prospective applicant and I am wondering what you students think of the life at USF? This includes all aspects, such as dining, dorms, social atmosphere, city life etc. Lookign forward on some opinion!                

667. 
                            Nobody?...                        

668. 
                            EndPhase, you could probably find good information on u*n*i*g*o ..                        

669. 
                            I've checked that site before and I find it sort of sketch. I mean, really, every photo of the "reviewers" are fake, as I see the same photo for different schools. I know anyone can pose as a USF student on forums such as this too, however, I feel like only USF students (prospective or current) will post on this thread.                        

670. 
                            I applied RD to this school and live in Nothern CA for 2016. I liked it a lot, and have done a lot of further research beyond their admissions department. It's important to read reviews from different websites, unfortunately you really have to dig for the good stuff. Make sure you really listen and read the negative reviews often times the smartest and most affected people are the ones who are driven to get the word out, and let the truth be known!

- Something that seems to be a popular issue among the students is how expensive the cost of living is. You have to remember that everything in the city is more expensive. I am talking about necessities outside of on campus residence housing. (Food and Activities outside of campus)

- I know there was a flare up recently with the administration and the underclassmen over on-campus housing, and it's availability. It was straightened out and I do not know the entire story, but if you have not visited the campus it's worth it! ( The dorms are.........)

-Take the time to read this, a lot of students don't think to look at the institutional advancement offices of the schools they are applying to.

These are future construction plans, "Not meant to burden students." I am really excited to see what it will all look like.

http://www.usfca.edu/uploadedFiles/Destinations/Offices_and_Services/Giving/CSI/CSI_booklet09h.pdf

https://projmgmt.box.com/s/udu9ss0bpav1t6tyj1sx 

671. 
                    TO anyone who applied to be a nursing major at USF, in your acceptance email did it state that you got in for nursing? I just got me email this morning and it doesn't say anything about nursing, just the fact that I got accepted in general. Thanks!                

672. 
                            I applied for nursing as well, and no it didn't say anything about nursing in the email, just that i got accepted. Maybe it'll say something in the formal letter and packet that they'll send us soon?                        

673. 
                            I hope so! :)
Did you apply to any other nursing programs?                        

674. 
                            i applied to san diego state university and the university of tampa and i got into both of those (: so now i am just deciding between those two and university of san francisco. Where else did you apply to?                        

675. 
                            I got into mills college and saint mary's for nursing. I also applied to Gonzaga, university of Portland. USF is my top choice.                        

676. 
                    I applied EA in the middle of October and I still haven't heard back. Just wondering if anyone has heard back...                

677. 
                            I sent the admissions department an e-mail to make sure they got everything and in the response they said you should be notified by mid to late December with a mailed letter.                        

678. 
                            I was checking older forums and last year undergraduate ea applicants people were getting notified of acceptances around the 10th of December so hopefully (maybe) the e-mails/letters will come this week                        

679. 
                            Does anyone know if the U of SF offers admission's interviews? I can't seem to find it on their website and I would like to arrange one.                        

680. 
                            I'm pretty sure they don't offer interviews                        

681. 
                            I applied EA as well. I guess we'll be knowing soon.
Stats and which major/school?                        

682. 
                    It seems I made an error on my supplement for the University of San Francisco.. I accidentally listed my first choice major as a second choice. I applied at the early action deadline.. How big of a deal is this mistake and how can I fix it??                

683. 
                            I don't think it's a huge error unless you were going into nursing. I would just call the school and they will probably help you with it                        

684. 
                    im a senior this year and recently applied EA to USF for their nursing program.  does anyone know the average stats of a undergrad nursing student or is there anyone that has been accepted that could tell me their stats? im very curious as to whether or not i have a chance at this program or not. thanks!!                

685. 
                            I have no clue swimmer, I'm just happy to see someone actually post about this school finally haha.

I'll be attending Fall 2012, so i'm always looking for activity in here for this school...so dead in here. lol

Well what do your stats look like? That would be a start in figuring out your potential for attending.                        

686. 
                            you already know you're accepted for fall 2012? when did you submit your application?                        

687. 
                            To obtain a B.S. in Business Economics, ill be going at night. I'm transferring 70 units with a 3.4 and admittance works different for the school of management. Professional student basically.                        

688. 
                            I've been wondering the same thing. I've just heard that it is competitive. Do any of you guys know if there is a supplemental application for nursing? Most schools require one and i can't seem to find it on the USF website.                        

689. 
                            Call them.  they're nice.  they'll tell you on the phone.  And they'll also learn your name when you talk to them.  it may come in handy when your app is stacked with many others.                        

690. 
                            Nope there isn't one specifically for nursing. Just the supplement that everyone does.                        

691. 
                    I went to the open house last weekend and I liked the school a lot! I usually don't go for urban schools but san fran is a cool city.

I can't remember if they  have an EA option, but if they do, I"m doing it.                

692. 
                            I am! :D
I'm so excited about USF <3                        

693. 
                            I haven't started the supplement haha. GOD DAMN THE EFFING UC ESSAYS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! >:(                        

694. 
                            Me too! I just submitted my application on Sunday!                        

695. 
                            I'll be going in as a transfer, hello my future alumni comrades.                        

696. 
                    My high school record is absolutely terrible. My sophomore and junior years are full of dropped and retaken classes. However during my senior year I took all AP classes both semesters and both semesters I received a 4.0. Which brought my high school gpa to a cumulative 3.1 weighted and 3.05 unweighted. I have volunteered at Youth Court for five hours a week since 2007, won multiple awards a year in state-wide piano competitions since 2002, and won 4 debate trophies in state and national tournaments in two years. I scored a 28 on my ACT with writing and did terribly on my SAT. I am also fluent in Chinese in French but I don't think that makes a big difference in admission, especially in San Francisco.

Right now I am a freshman in college, I am expecting to get good marks for both semesters and I am studying abroad in China for second semester. My current plan is double majoring in International Relations and Illustration.

Please and thank you, sorry this is so wordy.                

697. 
                            To be more specific: 2 dropped classes, one retaken class.                        

698. 
                            I messaged a admissions offer and the dean of admission at USF and asked her a question about transfer GPA and requirements.

Basically she said you need a 3.0 cumulative transfer GPA and a strong personal statement. That was all!

Good Luck & God Bless  :) 

699. 
                    How is the accounting and business programs?
Do many of the accounting students pass the CPA exam?
Are many students completing internships which lead to jobs?                

700. 
                            From what I've heard...

USF is not nationally relevant..however they have great connections to jobs/internships in the city of SF.                        

701. 
                    I know that USF is a private school and that tuition is up in the high $30,000 range, but does the financial aid do good job in making attendance of school affordable with EFC's below $15,000 for example.                

702. 
                            If you have good grades and test scores, you will qualify for a USF scholarship of at least $7,000.  USF will also award you a grant if your FAFSA indicates that you qualify.  The balance will be loans, which is the norm at most schools.  Tuition plus room and board is more like $50,000, not $30,000 unfortunately.  It is a good idea to apply to at least 5 or so schools and then compare financial aid packages.  Good luck!                        

703. 
                            thanks momof3D, I'm a transfer student looking into some private schools that can be generous with financial aid so that expenses while attending aren't so high. Public universities are on my radar, but I'm keeping an open mind at the same time to privates.                        

704. 
                    So I got the letter today and I am wait listed. What are the odds of getting off the wait list? Should I treat it as a flat out rejection, or is there a chance I will be offered a spot?                

705. 
                            Bumper carz~~                        

706. 
                            Bumppppppppppppppppppppppppp                        

707. 
                            Send them a letter reiterating your interest. Explain why you like USF, and how you would contribute to the USF community. Let them know if you get off the waitlist you will attend (assuming this is the case.)

After you send the letter call them every week or so asking for an update on the waitlist. They will note your persistence.

In the mean time, deposit at a school you were accepted to.


If USF accepts you later you will loose that deposit but 200-300 dollars is a small price to pay for the next 4 years, in my opinion.

Good Luck!                        

708. 
                            Still waitlisted =[ Called and they said right now they don't think they will go to the wait list. Well that sucks...                        

709. 
                    Do senior year second semester grades matter at this college? I have sustained a 3.5 gpa throughout high school and was accepted for fall 2011 undergrad. However, I have mainly Bs, one C and an F in my second semester of senior year. Is this going to cause any issues for my admission to the school?                

710. 
                    What's the social scene for freshman and undergrads in general at USF?                

711. 
                            I would like to know this too.                        

712. 
                            it really depends on what you make of it. usf doesn't have a bunch of frats, or much of a greek scene at all, so you won't get hit in the face with party invites or anything like that. there are usually a bunch of dorm parties/ drinking at first (if that's your scene), and then the sports teams host a lot of parties. other than that, a lot of people go into the city to have fun, either by going to a club or just exploring different parts of the city. school can feel kind of cliquey after the first few months, as everybody settles into their good group of friends, but it's not hard to find something to do.                        

713. 
                    For anyone who is an alumni or current student at University of San Francisco, what is the best dorm for a freshman girl? I want to avoid parties and an obnoxious amount of noise. I prefer somewhere more quiet because that's the only way I can study.                

714. 
                            I want to know this too, but for my cousin.                        

715. 
                            well typically most freshman live in either gillson or hayes-healy. if you want a normal social scene (some parties, noise but not overbearing), i would try for hayes. it's kind of the middle of the road between the loud, crazier social/party scene (phelan), and the all-girls silent dorm with crazy guest rules (fromm). it's really up to how quiet you actually want your dorm. there's also the lone mountain dorms, but those are really quiet and kinda antisocial too. if i were you i would live in hayes, but it's your choice.                        

716. 
                    What is the gay scene like at USF? Are the gay kids generally nice and welcoming? Do they date much? Are the other students accepting of homosexuality?                

717. 
                    Is it still possible to apply to USF?                

718. 
                            If you are applying for Fall 2011, then it is too late. Their deadline in January (I'm not sure of the exact date for regular deadline because I applied Early Action).                        

719. 
:) Early Action Acceptances are out!

I received my acceptance letter today notifying me that I am a University Scholar..I get a $19,500 scholarship!

I am majoring in Biological Sciences (Biology).

Has anyone else received their acceptances for Early Action? Congratulations, if you did!                

720. 
                            Congratulations!  My daughter received her acceptance as well.                        

721. 
                            Did you get your letter in an e-mail?                        

722. 
                            Yes. I also got it through mail today.                        

723. 
                            Did you find out about the scholarship through e-mail, through letter, or through both? Thanks and congratulations!                        

724. 
                            I found out about the scholarship through the letter. No problem, and thank you! :) 

725. 
                            Just wondering, for those who have received acceptances, when did you submit your app, very early or close to 11/15 deadline?  Thanks, and congratulations!                        

726. 
                            I submitted my application around November 1, 2010. :) 

727. 
                            congrats so happy for you^^
whats your stats                        

728. 
                            yeah please post your stats b.c. I'd love that scholarship lol                        

729. 
                            If you clicked on my username, you'd most likely be able to find the topics I made. I made several chance threads that have my stats. :) 

730. 
                            Ah I applied Early Action too and I want to know! :) 

731. 
                            Oh, and does anybody know if USF does rolling admissions? For those who had received their letters already, where are you from? I submitted everything around 10/23/10, but I live in NY, so I am just wondering if my letter might be coming a bit later than those of you who live out west.  Thanks!                        

732. 
                            i sent mine is august still waitin, its rolling admissions for transfer only                        

733. 
                            I applied early action as well, but it seems they didnt update my application status (they say they still don't have my sat scores eventhough I sent them already by college board). Maybe it's because college board says that my scores were sent on the 21st of November?
Did they post online on your application status or did they only let you know by email/ letter?                        

734. 
                            @ zaphria
You might want to check up on that, because it will say on your profile when you check the status of your app on USF's website if your app is complete or incomplete.  I'm assuming that if you're missing test scores then your app will be considered as incomplete so you might want to give them a call.                        

735. 
                    Did anyone who did not apply EA get accepted yet? My application has been "processed" for weeks now but says nothing regarding whether or not I was accepted. I also have not received any letter from USF regarding the decision.                

736. 
                            I'm in the same boat. I'm dying to know. I applied regular action                        

737. 
                    Did anyone receive their accept/reject through the portal or mail? My portal says processed but no sign of accept or reject is shown. I also have not received any letter, what about you guys?                

738. 
                            wait is the portal just the application status thing or the USF connect? because i can't seem to open the USF connect.                        

739. 
                    I applied REGULAR decision and about a month ago, I recieved a Yellow packet that had a brouchure about the campus, and a letter saying I hope I consider USF.

What does this mean??

I still havent heard back from them about being accepted or not.

HELP!!!!                

740. 
                    So I am looking at my USF account and the top box that says "applications in progress" is blank while the box below it "processed applications" has my application for fall 2011 with the application preference as "not entered". What does this mean? It does not say I was rejected nor accepted. Are decisions even out yet?                

741. 
                            Yeah i believe they've started emailing decisions. I haven't received my decision yet but my status website looks just likes yours too                        

742. 
                            I was accepted ~2-3 weeks ago.                        

743. 
                    Is USF  a good school? What would be the drawbacks of going to USF?                

744. 
                            the price, religion, and small size                        

745. 
                            The price is similar to other private institutions; Jesuits don't push religion and it doesn't matter what religion you are to go here; and it is small compared to Ohio State, but is mid-size in my view-well over 7,000 students.

Alej744, did you end up applying or are you a junior?                        

746. 
                            I agree with momof3d's points, however the undergrad population is more like 5,500 - University of San Francisco (USF) - At a Glance

Is it a good school? A lot depends on the type of student you are. If your SAT's are in the 2300+ range and you have taken a dozen AP classes, then maybe it's not the right school for you. My S is a senior at USF and was admitted as a University Scholar (2060 SAT, AP Scholar w/ Distinction) with a generous grant. He has been very happy there and we feel he has gotten a good education. A friend of mine's son went there and last year he completed his Ph.D. at UCLA - he had nothing but good things to say about his undergrad education at USF.                        

747. 
                            As a parent of a HS Junior son wanted to ask if kids stay on campus and how is their CS program? Son is interested in teaching tech/cs at a high school.                        

748. 
                            hi does anyone know when i should be hearing back if i applied regular action? also, i am a transfer student from a junior college with a 3.1 gpa what are my chances of being accepted? thanks                        

749. 
                    I got a 1.8 my freshman year. Now in my first semester of my Sophemore year and I have a 3.0-3.3 with one AP and good extra curriculars. Is my horrible freshman year grades and my average first semester of my sophemore year going to hold me back from gaining admissions in the future? Thanks.                

750. 
                    Hi! I was wondering, for the architecture major, I know the app doesn't require a portfolio but can I send one to be considered with my application?                

751. 
                    I'm a senior worried about college acceptance and the likelihood of getting into the schools I want to get into.. so I was wondering if I have a GPA of 3.2-3.3, SAT score of 2090 (math 720, CR 710), and have played sports throughout 4 years and have done numerous amounts of volunteering, what are the chances of getting into University of San Francisco and University of Washing for NURSING as a major..

Any kind of input would help! and I would appreciate some good advice on how I can increase my chances of getting in..                

752. 
                            You won't have much of a problem in getting into USF the average high school gpa of incoming freshman is a 3.5. University of Washington on the other hand is a big reach for you.                        

753. 
                            With a 2090 on the SAT (and 1430 on the CR/M sections), I'd say you won't have much trouble getting into either school.                        

754. 
                    I got the e-mail today during school! woop                

755. 
                            Congrats; I got the acceptance e-mail on the 8th.                        

756. 
                            Are you both planning on going there? I got accepted too :) 

757. 
                            I'm not sure, I applied to ten schools and it's the only one I've heard back from so far. But it's up there in the top five, and I'll probably go to the admitted-students thing.                        

758. 
                            Wait, did you apply EA? When do you get your admission decision back if you applied Regular Decision?                        

759. 
                            If you don't mind me asking, what were your stats like locrow?                        

760. 
                            yaay!! I got in too!! lol even though it waasn't a high priority, it feels good to be accepted SOMEWHERE! ahaha i was rejected from NYU ED back in december and that SUCKED. but wow i cant believe they sent emails..thats awesome!!

ACCEPTED

stats:

GPA: 4.2 weighted
SAT Score: 1850
No legacy
hmm...theres not much else to say. i think anyone can basically get in. i guess i had good extracurriculars! : ]]]                        

761. 
                            Accepted like 6 days ago through E-mail
my stats were 3.0ish,
1890 SAT
27 ACT
AP Lit, Lang, and Economics
And lots of hooks like film and community service =D                        

762. 
                            Just got in today! feels good to get in somewhere                        

763. 
                            NOLAN, my UC GPA is 3.92 and my SAT 2280.                        

764. 
                            Accepted :) 

765. 
                            just wondering, what did the e-mail say? or did you just log into your usf account?                        

766. 
                            Hey locrow did you get accepted as a University Scholar? Your stats are higher than mine and I still surprisingly got accepted as one. : )                        

767. 
                            My letter said admission with distinction but nothing about university scholar. Congratulations!                        

768. 
                            what stats do you need to be accepted with distinction and/or a university scholar?                        

769. 
                            so are only students with distinction and the scholars being accepted right now?                        

770. 
                    I am considering USF, and I would want a degree in biology. Can anyone give me their review of the department?                

771. 
                    My daughter who will be a freshman at USF in the Fall entered into the "choose your own roommate" pool on the late side.  She is getting nervous about finding someone to room with.  My older daughters were assigned roommates by their school, so this is new to us.   Has anyone else encountered any difficulty with this?  She had two requests, but missed them because she didn't see them in time to respond.  The requests she put out were paired up before she got a message to them.  This is stressful!                

772. 
                            i didn't check the usf connect for like 2 months and alot of roommates are already paired and I'm still looking for one. If you want to know more about me you can pm me.                        

773. 
                            Thanks for responding, Allie!  If I can figure how to pm you, I will give you her name and you can contact her through USF's roommate connection.  She is housesitting now, but is probably checking email.                        

774. 
                            Allied2010, did my pm's reach you?                        

775. 
                    Have you guys received your decision letter in the mail?                

776. 
                            I did. I was rejected with early action                        

777. 
                            Hey can you tell me your stats                        

778. 
                    3.0 gpa
1600 sat
+200 service hours
3 ap class
ive play sports and joined clubs throughout high school
i wrote pretty good college essays                

779. 
                            When did you apply?  For what major?  I hope you get in.  Is USF your 1st choice?  I think you will get in.  Here's hoping.                        

780. 
                            i applied in early January
i think i put undecided as a major
and yeah its one of my top two choices                        

781. 
                            My advice, call USF and talk with an admissions counselor.  Also, you may want to send a letter letting them know how much you'd like to go to USF and highlight some of the stuff you are doing this school year, your grades, classes, etc.    Keep us posted here how you make out.  Call them, though, tomorrow a.m.                        

782. 
                            well i got wait listed  -___-
anyone know the wait listed stats?                        

783. 
                            1sd619, I got waitlisted too. Of course the letter was dated 3/25 and I received it in the mail on the 1st and it said I had 10 days to reply.  I received it on a Thurs and Sunday would have been the 10th day and they are closed on Good Friday so not sure if they will consider me at all at this point.  Dying to know what the stats are and yes, USF is my first choice.                        

784. 
                            Well both of you can have my spot.  USF used to be my number one choice, but they didn't give me any FA, except for loans so I can not go there.  Good luck to both of you.                        

785. 
                            im going to USF!!! :) 

786. 
                            eharmony-what made you make your mind up?  My daughter is in the last days of deciding, and it is tough.                        

787. 
                            1sd619:  Have your heard from USF yet?  They told me that they are going to their watilist and that my name has been "suggested" as an applicant...?????                        

788. 
                            still have not heard anything                        

789. 
                    Hey guys, i am a transfer student to USF, i already my intent to register and paid for $200 deposit.. But the problem is i may be failing an anthropology class at my current University.. Does anyone know how this would affect my admission? I have over the 45 required units. i have about 60 to be exact.                

790. 
                            You should contact the admissions office and ask!                        

791. 
                    i will be freshmen fall 2010 at u of san francisco. let get together at facebook. IM your screen name. There is a facebook group "university of san francisco class 2014",  but it will be expensive to pay for the school :( 

792. 
                            I am going to see the web of usf class 2014 now                        

793. 
                            im on fb, but class of 2012

transferring from san francisco state.                        

794. 
                            dennisho,  PLEASE tell me, how did you like SFSU?  I live in NY, have been to visit the SFSU campus as well as USF.  Love USF, but they gave me no financial aid, only loans.  I really want to be in SF, so is SFSU a nice place to be?  How is the weekend life?  Is it a "chill" atmosphere or are students uptight?  How are classes?  Profs?

Thanks so much.                        

795. 
                            nick, im a calif high school student. there is major budget issue here. some people get lucky and able to get to enroll 4 classes. but my friend enrolls 2 classes at sfsu due to cut in classes                        

796. 
                            Really?  Even as a full time student?  Gee, I may have to rethink, I need to take at least 5 classes a semester.                        

797. 
                            i like sfsu, but like funwithme states, SOME people have a hard time getting classes, if you try hard enough you'll be able to get 5 classes. you cant be picky with class times tho. so u might have a class at 830am. but i love sfsu, people are super chill, girls are real pretty, parties are fun, professors are awesome.                        

798. 
                    When do wait list decisions come out ?                

799. 
                            I wonder the same thing.  Supposedly they will send out decisions after the May 1st deadline of ...  But I have seen some threads here that say they receive a decision prior to May 1st (2009).  I do think that USF is going to lag a little because they have a rolling decision policy....                        

800. 
                    Hey guys,

So if I arrive at the San Francisco Airport (SFO? I have no idea lol) around 7:45am-ish, and immediately take a taxi to USF, will I make it to USF BEFORE 9:00am?


***Btw is anyone going to the Admitted Students Reception April 17th?***                

801. 
                            It will take you about 30min. to get to the campus.  no problem good luck.
I live in S.F. about 15 min. closer to the airport an it only takes 15 min. to get from my house to the airport.  Also no rush hour that early Sat. morning.  congrats SF is a great city                        

802. 
                            Oh...well I've heard from other people that it takes like 10 minutes to get off the plane, 20-30 minutes to ride the shuttle to the transportation area, and then I'll be late.

Can anybody confirm??                        

803. 
                            if u only have carry on baggage, you have enough time.                        

804. 
                            Between my dad and me, we'll only have one bag, lol.
But is the part about the shuttle/transportation true?

Sorry...I can't change my tickets without being charged a ridiculous fee so I want to be very sure. :/ 

805. 
                    Hi if I was rejected and I think my stats and body of work are good enough to be accepted, how does the appeal process work? Please and thank you.                

806. 
                            what are your stats?                        

807. 
                    Any transfer student who will live in the dorm ?
or any past transfer student who lived in the dorm ? please share ur experience                

808. 
                    Well I'm looking to transfer to USF I've done my research on the academics and what not now I just need some feedback about campus and doming life at USF from students who are and have attended USF. It would be much appreciated  thanks :) 

809. 
                            Here, i will give you guys several useful websites. you can see the reviews of the alumni.
1. [url]http://www.**************.com[/url]
2. [url]http://**************.com/university-of-san-francisco/[/url]
these two are very detailed.  Each item have some reviews.

College Graduate Salary Statistics by Location. USF is good.
3. College Graduate Salary Statistics by Location
Best Undergrad College Degrees By Salary
4. Best Undergrad College Degrees By Salary
you can find what you want.

This one is WSJ campus' review. only one review :(
5. [url]http://www.*****.com/reviews/?collegeid=156&surveyid;=984[/url]

i hope it may help you.lol                        

810. 
                            Oh my god, i have no idea.
it use ******** to instead.
umm...
No1 and No2.are very useful. so....hah,here.

No.1's website is 3w.students.review.com   (delete the"." between "students" and "review". and 3w means www. i know you guys are smart! :) )
No.2 is 3w.college.prow.ler.com (delete the "." between "www." and ".com")                        

811. 
                            THANKS the sites were useful!                        

812. 
                    which dorm is good for freshmen (male student)

Gillson or Hayes - Healy Hall

pros and cons                

813. 
                            Gillson is bad
Hayes-Healy is much better for freshman, male.
Fromm is good for girls. plus, only for girls.
Gillson and H-H is mixed                        

814. 
                    Hi, I was wondering if any of you guys might be able to give me advice on my post about USF. It wouldn't let me add more than two tags for some reason so I'm posting the link here as well.

http://talk.collegeconfidential.com/what-my-chances/866893-deferred-usf-what-my-chances.html

Thank you! :) 

815. 
                            Have you heard anything in the last month?  Is this your first choice?                        

816. 
                            I was accepted on February 25th. It's my first choice!                        

817. 
                            Congratulations!                        

818. 
                    Incorrect information, corrected:

1.  USF is located "off on its own" in a remote part of the City.

INCORRECT:  USF is located in the geographic center of the northern half of the City.  SF is only 7 miles by 7 miles and is extremely compact.  USF is about 2 miles from the Civic Center (east), and about 2.5 miles from Union Square, and about 3.50 miles from the Financial District; each of these abut each other.  USF is about 3 miles from the Pacific Ocean, and one block from Golden Gate Park (which in turn goes all the way out to the Pacific); four blocks from Haight-Ashbury (not a hot-spot for USF students).  Public transit is plentiful (electric and diesel buses).

2.  USF Is located on a single city block.

INCORRECT:  USF is composed of four distinct campuses separated by city streets:  Main, Lone Mountain, Koret Center/Soccer, Law School.  The nearly abut.  Because of its location on a hilltop (actually, two hilltops), views are panoramic in some campus spots and exceptional in one or two directions from other campus spots.  Most classes are on the Main and Lone Mountain campuses.  Athletic fields/gyms are on Main and Koret/Soccer.

3. Archticture is beautiful . . .

CLARIFY:   . . .  depending where you are.  The main church, St. Ignatius, is stunning inside and out, and its dome is lit year-round - a focal point in the City's northern districts.  (Also, by city zoning, no area building can be taller than the bottom of St. Ignatius's dome.)  Lone Mountain campus is also stunning.  Main campus is mostly 1950s and 1960s humdrum, except for the Church.                

819. 
                            Thanks for the information.                        

820. 
                    Is that a problem?

Pretty much everyone from my school with a 3.0+ gets in, and my GPA is wayyy more than a 3.0                

821. 
                    is the optional essay really vital to getting accepted? i live on the east coast so i know that acceptance will be harder for me, but i feel that my common application essay addresses the topics of the optional essay. however if its crucial i'll do it of course!                

822. 
                            Hi Emily, optional essay is optional, especially as you say, you have already addressed the issues in your common app essay.                        

823. 
                            Why would acceptance be more difficult for someone from the east coast. I would think it would be easier, all things being equal.                        

824. 
                            I think that you might as well do it, I forget the prompt but isn't it about carrying out the Jesuit mission? If you have some good Catholic-themed essay to write it can't hurt ha.                        

825. 
                            333 yeah..dont listen to ppl! it doesnt matter where ur from, but kids from states that dont really have other kids apply from THAT state have a better chance. for instance a kid with my stats got into NYU, from indiana. but i live in california, and TONS of kids apply  from here so ur kinda competing against them too. but its really a toss up. apply where u want.                        

826. 
                    How are the 'ships at San Francisco?

I searched the forum and there is not a lot of info about USF and scholarships here. Guess that means the students are too busy having fun!


I'd be OOS from the midwest and to go to USF I'd have to get a pretty good scholarship to go all the way out to Bay area...but the Bay Area sounds awesome.

Here are some basic stats:

White Junior
GPA: 3.8 UW, 4.2 W
ACT/SAT: 30(studying, trying to get a 32), 1330(again, studying, hoping for a 1400)
Some ECs: Eagle Scout, NHS, EM, write for school paper, two jobs, etc...


So I think I should get some money, but realistically it probably wouldn't be enough.

Thanks                

827. 
                            I visited the campus last spring. They mentioned that if you have 3.7 and an ACT score of 30 or greater you get a 25,000 scholarship (that number might be wrong). I suggest e-mailing an admissions rep.

By the way, I just got in and I have a 3.5 GPA and got a 25 of the ACT's.                        

828. 
                    What is a typical day for you like? Are there more projects or mostly written assignment? Or does it depend on the teacher?                

829. 
                    General Information

Female
Asian
Lived in USA for 8 months now
When application is due, my resident status would be permanent

Academics

GPA :3.92/4.00 (UW) no weighted because I transferred
Rank: 10ish/150
Courses taken next year: AP Calculus, AP Literature, AP Art History, and maybe AP US Hist (I'm taking all the AP class my school offers, except for AP Stats)
SAT I: 1420(May), estimated 1600s in October
SAT II: haven't taken yet

ECs

-Volunteering :100 hours at the Vietnamese Consulate and 50 hours at a Festival
-Internship: An architect internship back in my country
-Clubs : member of book club, asian club and blue and white club(club that involves with the school governement)
-Award: "Most Outstanding Junior" at school for excelling academically, and most oustanding student in physics class.

Other information

My previous school education system was totally different from America's, they don't require any community hours, extracurriculum activites or sports(because they are already include in the school's curriculum) therefore I'm a deep disadvantage to many other students.

But please chance me!!!


All help/answer is appreciated, thank you                

830. 
                            You're in.                        

831. 
                    So, did anybody get any kind of scholarship notification?                

832. 
                            no i am still waiting                        

833. 
                            I got scholarship notification with my acceptance letter.                        

834. 
                            how much $? Stats?


Thanks                        

835. 
                            yeah, i'm curious about this too.                        

836. 
                            I'd like to know too                        

837. 
                    Did anybody receive their financial aid package yet? Does anybody know if there's a way we can check it out online?                

838. 
                            There is a way to review it on your online account.  It currently says that the information will be available the last week of March.                        

839. 
                            Where do you access the online account?                        

840. 
                            "USFconnect login" on main page of website                        

841. 
                            I emailed Financial Aid yesterday and they responded that financial end would be mailed out the "very end of March" and that I should receive it in early April. Hang in there.                        

842. 
                    I got the e-mail a few days ago! Not exactly my first choice, but at least I know that I have somewhere to go if my top choices don't work out. Anyone else? It seems like most people don't really have nice things to say about this school. I like it though. I think I would be able to survive if I ended up going here.                

843. 
                            I got the email today too! I toured the campus a few weeks ago and the more I have thought about it the more I like it. I didn't get any $$$ but we'll see. I'm still hoping for USD and Chapman...Duddlyu91, have they sent you a info packet yet?                        

844. 
                            Cool! I just got the official acceptance letter in the mail today. They gave me an id number and all that. They're supposed to send the info packet soon. We're probably not gonna learn about scholarship awards until we fill out the FAFSA.                        

845. 
                            How long was it between when you applied and when you were accepted?                        

846. 
                            It was extremely fast! It was the first college that I got accepted to. I finished sending in all of my stuff the week of the early action deadline on November 15 and I got my acceptance through E-mail sometime in late November.  The actual admission letter came during the first week of December.                        

847. 
                            I just checked and I got my email! Excitement!                        

848. 
                            ^ Congratulations!!!                        

849. 
                            Thanks! You, too.                        

850. 
                            Hello everyone, congratulations to all!
For any of you who have facebook there is now a University of San Francisco Class of 2013 group.

[url=http://www.****/home.php?#/group.php?gid=40744708747&ref=ts]Login | Facebook[/url]                        

851. 
                            Congrats future USF students! My son is a soph. at USF and loves it. His math professor this past semester was educated at Oxford and was an excellent teacher. Son passed up on UCSD, UCD, UCSB, USD and Santa Clara to attend USF and doesn't regret it for a second. Good luck and go Dons!                        

852. 
                            I GOT IN TOO GUYS!!!! Also not my first choice but looking at the future of UCs I think i am going to end up going there unless i get into USC or pepperdine                        

853. 
                    Just got accepted into the USf MBA program.  From the student panel events, it seems fairly well.  Also got into San Francisco State University.  Much cheaper that private USF and easier access.  Which school do you guys think I should attend?  Your advice is highly appreciated.                

854. 
                            I got into the USF business school and I also got into the business school of the University of the Pacific. I'm just waiting on the University of San Diego, but I have no clue which to choose.                        

855. 
                            Have you attended the student panel or visited the school?  I attended the student panel and received good insight.  I am highly considering the school but I am getting second thoughts because of the lack of rankings and recognition.  50K for a non ranking private school seems pretty steep.                        

856. 
                            Probably depends on whether you want to stay in the bay area or not.  If you stay in the bay area, you need to find out what their reputation is and who recruits there (assuming you want another job).  If you want to move outside of the bay area, neither school is going to make or break you, so go with the cheaper option.                        

857. 
                    Chance me Please. Aspiring medical student and based on what I've researched USF can be a great college that can lead me into a great medical career.

Stats:
 SAT: scores not out yet, took in October
 SAT II: Biology 720, Korean: 770, Math IIC: 620, World History: 540
(planning to retake Math IIC again to get at least a 700+ and world history was an unfortunate misfortune =[ )
 ACT: English 31, Math 29, Reading 28, Science 26, Essay 10, Composite: 29
(retaking this October)
 GPA: UW: 3.833/4.0 , W: 4.1
 Rank: 28/886
 AP: Biology: 5, Environmental Science: 5, World History: 3
 Senior Courses: English 12, AP Calculus BC, AP Macroeconomics, AP Government, AP Music Theory, AP Computer Science, Jazz Band.

Extra Curricular:
 Involved in Marching Band for 3 years (2years 1st chair). Involved in Wind and Percussions Band for 3 years (2years 1st chair). Currently in Jazz Band(1st Chair).
(Band took A LOT of my time-nearly 40+ hours a week, hard to do other things.)
 President/Founder of Next Generation Boosters Club: Help students get information about colleges, scholarship opportunities, extracurricular experience. We also provide academic tutoring and our experience within various subjects of our high school courses. (Senior Year)
 President/Founder of Philosophy Club
 Member of Young Medical Discoverers Group of America(3years), Current Secretary.
 Volunteer at Kaiser Permanente, Elderly Home, and few recreational jobs(ie. helping fix up school, pick up trash, etc.).
 Write on the side as a hobby. Entered into some contests which are still pending.
 Hobbies: play saxophone, guitar, piano.

Issue
*Haven't yet taken Physics, but am planning to over summer or next semester in community college.

Personal
 Location: California
 High School Type: Public
 Ethnicity: Korean
 Gender: Male
 I Am Applying for Financial Aid


Awards:
AP Scholar Award
Teen Ink Raw Semi-Finalist
High Honors every year
Valedictorian
Qualified ELC

Question:
How is the atmosphere/environment of USF?                

858. 
                            I think you're good to go.  The acceptance rate is 72%.

Freshman
Admission: 7,105 applied; 5,132 admitted; 1,078 enrolled
Average high school GPA: 3.47
Test Scores:
SAT critical reading scores over 500 82%
SAT math scores over 500 83%
ACT scores over 18 97%
SAT critical reading scores over 600 33%
SAT math scores over 600 33%
ACT scores over 24 52%
SAT critical reading scores over 700 5%
SAT math scores over 700 4%
ACT scores over 30 5%                        

859. 
                    Compared to most of my classmates, I'm a pretty liberal, left-of-center person. I know there will be some diversity of opinion, but being a Catholic school, does the student body tend to be more conservative? What are the general attitudes at USF about politics, homosexuals, drugs, etc?                

860. 
                    So who got accepted to USF? :) 

861. 
                            Do they send an email if you're accepted?  The site's "Application Status" just shows my general information and that they've received all my documents.                        

862. 
                            I got an email and then a few days later I received the letter in the mail. :) Best of luck to you!

I've read your other posts about you're upward trend in grades and noticed we're applying to many of the same schools. So I don't know if you're religious or not but I'll be praying for you!                        

863. 
                            I got accepted via email yesterday. The subject of the email was Congratulations from the University of San Francisco                        

864. 
                            I got an email last Friday and the packet this week.                        

865. 
                            D was accepted a while ago - she loves USF!!!                        

866. 
                            I was accepted, but I'm probably not going.                        

867. 
                            dbsilverman24-great choice.                        

868. 
                            Selenium707 - Good job killing every single thread on this board.                        

869. 
                            Actually, never mind. I understand that you must not have enjoyed your time at USF. It's just it seems like you're ruining the excitement everyone is having. And from all the students I have spoken to, none have said the things you've been saying about USF.                        

870. 
                            Well said Mikei.  I feel sorry for the super deep hatred against USF within Selenium707. For goodness sake everything has it's goods and bads.  This is what other students think about their experience in USF.
University of San Francisco - Western Addition/NOPA - San Francisco, CA 94117 

871. 
                            USF should not even be considered a 4-year college.  I would say about 35% of my floor transfered after the first year.  The students are all a bunch of rich coke-heads who never do any work.  The school has got a massive drug problem, and some of the lowest academic standards I have ever seen.  The only thing USF did for me was allow me to transfer to a top 15 university.                        

872. 
                    DDs loved Saint Mary's and want to add another Bay Area college to their lists.  How do the two compare re:

Science program
Inclusive feel
Costs
Scholarship/grant $$                

873. 
                            I'm a business major so I don't know about the science program... But I know that the inclusive feel is less. I didn't necessarily like the SMC feel. It was a little too closely knit for me. :) 

874. 
                    I have been admitted to my state school, Rutgers New Brunswick. I have also been admitted to the University of San Francisco. I want to study Media Broadcasting but I am having trouble deciding where to enroll.

Rutgers has given me practically no financial aid, just work study and loans. USF has given me a pretty generous package. At this point, USF is the cheaper school for me. However, it is very far away from home and I have never visited the school. I have visited Rutgers though, and I loved it.
Should I go to Rutgers for about $2000 more a year or go to USF, a lower ranked school that I haven't seen? Which is a better descision?                

875. 
                            I can't tell you anything about your specific area of study and certainly that is a factor, but we are from NJ and my daughter went out to visit USF and really loved it. She did not apply to Rutgers or any NJ, PA schools because she wanted to be in a major city. She is going to Univ. of San Fran and is really excited. We figured wherever she went -- other than the immediate area would be either a 5 hour plus drive and she can fly non-stop and it won't take that much longer. Also, we will enjoy going out to visit her.
I think an important part of your decision is if you want to be away. Also, as with all new things -- you can't know for sure about any school and so we have told our daughter to try it and if she is not happy she can transfer next year.                        

876. 
                            Don't forget that travel costs can eat up the $2,000 savings pretty quick.                        

877. 
                    Hey i already sent my deposit in but this website is making me kind of nervous. Is this that bad of a school? I got into 11 other schools most of which rank higher but I absolutely loved the USF when I saw it, however, there seems to be a huge lack of school spirit or maybe since I am in Florida I am just out of touch (since college confidential is one of my greater sources of incite). Can anyone help me with this? Maybe someone from the west coast? I am having major anxiety issues.                

878. 
                            yeah I would also like to know, I'm in FL too- I take it that you've visited already  so is everyone there mainly from the west coast ? How are the dorms ?                        

879. 
                            kekeo008 - The campus is beautiful. We traveled to SF on BART, getting off at Powell Street. We walked up to Union Square for some shopping while watching the cable cars clang past. We jumped on a MUNI bus - not sure exactly which one to get on (an outwardly grumpy but very helpful bus driver made a special stop just for us) and arrived at the campus ten minutes later. Golden Gate Park and Haight Ashbury are within walking distance - it is a perfect location. Some of the dorms have views of SF and the campus, and some do not. Hiking up the steps to the Lone Mountain campus is rewarded by unbelievable views in all directions and beautiful architechture that is just what you would imagine it should be. The students we met were wonderful - they all seem convinced that they WILL change the world. It appears to be an international and diverse student body. Hope this helps!                        

880. 
                            I was wondering the same thing. I just found out I was accepted to University of San Francisco. It's great to hear about the students like that. I recently read that the CEO of Intel got his BA in Economics at USF and then went on to the Haas School of Business. I was thinking of taking a very similar path, so I am very excited to hear that I was accepted. (I love business!)

Congratulations to everyone who was accepted. :)

Previously, the only thing I had heard from a student about this school was on this board (which sure isn't popular among USF folk) and was written by a girl who didn't like the school. However, I must say that the comments that the girl made made her seem like a very bad person. (Obsessed with inappropriate things, not focused on school at all. She seemed angry about something. So I'm ignoring what she said.)                        

881. 
                    Hey guys,
I heard that you could some how find a roommate through college cofindential. I am from Florida, so I am pretty nervous to go to school all the way in San Francisco, however, the school is so beautiful and I extremely excited. Does anyone have any tips on how this works? Just so I do not end up with a roommate who is completly uncompatible.                

882. 
                    gpa: 2.73 unweighted, 3.09 weighted...
sat: 1280 (math and verbal)...
act: 30...
courseload: 4 years english (3 honors), 4 years social studies (3 honors, .5 AP), 4 years math (2 honors, 1 AP), 3.5 years science (2 honors), 3 years Spanish (1 Honors), other electives, AP Music Theory...
EC's: 4 years soccer (3 Varsity), 2 years varsity track, 5 years guitar, 1.5 years piano, 25+ hours of volunteer work, theres some more, but yeahh....any input would be great.

thanks                

883. 
                            USF isn't incredibly selective, so I wouldnt say that you are hopeless.

I'd work on raising your test scores a bit to balance the not so stellar gpa, but dont neglect your grades.

I think you have a shot, just write a great essay.                        

884. 
                    How does Univeristy of San Fran. compare to San Fran. State U? (Same goes for San Diego's U and state U)                

885. 
                    Does anyone know much about this school, obviouosly i am referring to you west coasters out there! I got off the waitlist to two of my west coast choices, UCSD and this one. I am NOT  apartier and hear UCSD is full fo drinking and pot, don't want that scene then I thought maybe cuz this is a catholic school it might be different, do you  know if thats the case? Also no offense to anyone but are there tons of gay people here cuz its in S.F? I am just curious as to what the scene is. Although I have deposited in another school, since we came back from a family wedding in Ca. a week ago I fell in love with it, and now am considering going there!! Go figure, my parents think i am nuts but we have lots of relatives there so its a possibility! If you have ANY info on this school, please advise. THakn you!                

886. 
                    Is anyone planning to attend here?                

887. 
                            Bump...


I guess the university isn't good nor popular...                        

888. 
                            it is good.


its 115 on the college rankings, not that high, but hell.

is SF.  decent city.  decent school.  diversity, relativley cheap for a private.



its not that bad.                        

889. 
                    Here are my stats:
3.7 GPA
1450 on SAT (as of right now...)
I am out of state however. Does that make a difference? Also, is it a good school? Please tell me what you think! Thanks.                

890. 
                            why are u applying if u dont already know its a good school?                        

891. 
                            Well, being out of state (Illinois), I feel that I need to rely heavily upon people's opinions instead of just the internet and information sent to me in the mail. I personally feel it's an amazing school, but am unable to go and visit until the fall. So, before I waste my time and money, I felt I should see what other people thought about the school. Thanks...                        

892. 
                            its very good school, but consider the cost.     its a long way to go, unless you want to end up in CA after you are done, you might want to think about staying closer to home.

my personal opinion, whcih is worth about .02 is it is not worth the money.  it does not have the national rep that other schools have yet it is just as expensive.  if money is an issue, i would think twice                        

893. 
                            apply to vandy, with you stats, you can get money there.    they will give 'ships for good students if they want you.    of the top 20 schools, they give the most aid and much is not tied to income                        

894. 
                            Yeah you should look at some schools ranked a little higher. If you really want to go to California, then you should look at USC, UCLA, etc....                        

895. 
                            ur stats are so solid, for thats cost, why not Pepperdine, USC, or maybe even UCB                        

896. 
                    Anyone? Somewhere? Gahh.                

897. 
                            right here !!                        

898. 
                            is it hard to get into?                        

899. 
                            thats such a relative question. yes for some, no for others. it is not one of the most selective though, no.                        

900. 
                            What about the education administration in USF? I'm a undergraduate from China. Thank you:)                        

901. 
                            Or how about the reputition of this university, in California,esp?                        

902. 
                            haha- believe, usf is unbelievably easy to get into
but then, i attend the high school that's about 2 miles away

i've lived in sf my whole life, and it's great
usf as whole isn't that great of a school, but there are its good points
plus, the view is amazing

it's a mediocre school- i ASSUME that most ppl who attend aren't from the bay area, most ppl in my school either go to a community college, uc, state, or private school outside of cali

as for the student from china- i think that usf isn't academically right for you, it certainly doesn't compare to yale or berkeley or anything- and i don't THINK that there are many foreign students there b/c it's not that prestigious or anything

however, i myself am chinese-american
my parents are immigrants and san francisco has a HUGE chinese population- chinatown is filled with old ladies that speak Cantonese / Taishanese
i've visited china- taisahn, guangzhou, and shanghai- and most ppl in san fran are from guangzhou/taishan- the shops in chinatown are almost exactly like those in china (but let me warn you, chinatown is really dirty)

hope i helped

Oh! i applied to usf too!                        

903. 
                            I was accepted to USF about a week ago through e-mail... I probably won't attend, though, since I want to go out east.  But the location is great!                        

904. 
                    Are there anyone applying here?                

905. 
                    So i got accepted into usf and i absolutely love the school and sf (i'm from the LA area). The only problem is I also was also accepted into usc and ucsb, and of course my mum and dad prefer a noted school to some school they've never heard of. I'm black (nigeria to be specific) so my mum and dad feel like i must represent for the black people by going to USC (or sb) and what not and tell their nigerian pals (and work buddies) about how their kid goes to a noted school. I want to go to a small school because I feel like I'll be more than just a number, plus i have a problem with huge crowds. I just coma back from the admit day (which took a lot of begging and crying to convince my mum and dad to go to) and they don't seem as impressed as i would like. I'm majoring in psych and i would greatly apreiate any innformation anyone has about that major or usf in general tha would make it appear to be a stellar institution (in my parent's eyes). I absolutely love this school and i refuse to give up!!                

906. 
                            Quick Tip: Go where you feel most comfortable. The experience of an undergraduate education is much more important then the rank of your school, and obviously you feel that you'd be much happier at USF.

I'm also from LA, and I'm heading to USF next year (English Major, writing emphasis). It seems to me that location, and perhaps the overall small, community feel of USF appeals to you. I felt the same way after visiting USF. I simply fell in love with the city, and ended up choosing USF over more prestigious universities.

As for the academia, many students will tell you the actual challange and learning experience at every college is virtually the same. The only difference is the majority of students of a higher calibur at more prestigious schools. True, going to USC may open more doors for you through connections and/or graduate school, but if you work hard anywhere and you have the talent, you will succeed. I don't know too much about the psych major at USF, but I haven't heard much about USC's either. USC is generally known for their film program, among other specific majors. The humanities classes have recently been given the stiff at USC, except for their creative writing courses. USF on the other hand, concentrates on giving an education similar to that found at a Liberal Arts College, which includes many Theology classes. I imagine this would interest you, seeing how you are heading towards Psych. Also, I'm not sure if this matters to you, but USF is recognized as one of the most diverse universities in the nation.

Whatever you decide, I of course wish you luck, and hopefully your parents will feel the same way. They should afterall.                        

907. 
                            if u were just here for the admissions thing that i must have just missed u...

anyway, yeah, i chose this school cos it's small and the professors know who you are.. i'm a psych major so anything u want to know about that i can help you with... the great thing about this school is that the classes are small, the profs know who you are and approachable... and they take the time to learn your names too... the largest class i've ever had here was an astronomy class with about a 100 ppl in it but that's prolly as big as it goes... the school has sort of a cosy atmosphere to it but if u're looking for a school with loads of school spirit this isn't one..  the dorms are are pretty old which kinda bugs but you get used to it... what else... hmmm... i'll answer any questions u have.. i just can't think of anything else to say.. lol

i've considered transferring to USC from here.. but one of my friends talked me out of it.. she goes there and she hates it.. she's a 4.0 from high school and she's failing two classes and the professors don't give a ****... it's like oh my god.... and she hates it so much she's moving to newport beach and making the one and a half hour drive to school and from school each day... the only reason she's staying in that school is because it has the best course for her major... oh well...                        

908. 
                            wow, thank you both for your insight. I'm sure when I have more questions (and discuss this some more with my mum and dad) I'll be sure to come back.

lilyemerald- I'm so sorry about your friend. Sadly I have been hearing about situations such as that from other people who attend USC.

I most definitely want to go to USF, I mean it's perfect: small, beautiful, in san francisco. I guess we'll see.

Thanks again!!                        

909. 
                            GO TO USC stay away from USF.....                        

910. 
                            why do you say that?                        

911. 
                    I'm currently deciding between schools. I love San Francisco as a place to live, but USF's programs seem a bit lackluster. If you're an Alumni or current student, how is the English Department (with a writing focus rather then literature)?

Also, how is the film scene in SF? I'm from LA, so i've been spoiled with an abundance of Independent Theatres.                

912. 
                            the writing program's ok only... and isnce it's an english major with a writing emphasis, you still have to take a bunch of classes that are required for the enlish major like survey of british literature... (others that i can't remember are foudn in the general catalog) you basically only get to take like specific writing classes when u've done ur required stuff... and i think they're changing it a bit.. are u leaning towards journalism or creative writing?

i haven't the faintest idea about the film scene in sf... but there are theatres that show like indie flicks and then there are those that show the typical  blockbusters... so i guess it's pretty ok..  but i'm not much of a film person...

hope that helps u even though it's like been ages since u posted... LOL.                        

913. 
                            I'm still here! Thanks for the reply, it has been awhile. Do you go to USF?

Oh, and I'm focusing on creative writing.                        

914. 
                            Disclaimer: I'm a parent living just outside SF.

Tons of indie and foreign film sites and some interesting film festivals in the city and environs.

As for creative writing beyond the U. world -- when I lived in SoCal, every other person I knew was working on a screenplay, and expensive homes always had a 'media room.' Here, my dry cleaner and everyone else is working on a novel, and expensive homes have a library.

Maybe a fit for you, maybe not?                        

915. 
                            Funny, seeing how I'm a rich los angeles kid with a "media" room and a library. A mix of both I guess. To be honest, I don't know what I want to do, but I know I love to write. I have an intense passion for film as well, more theory then production though, simply because I've been exposed to it all my life.

Like you said, San Francisco and LA are very different, but I've had enough of Socal. Your post gave me some confidence regarding the film festivals and such. Thanks!                        

916. 
                            yeah, i go to USF... majoring in psych and minoring in criminal justice.. but i have  a friend in the english with a writing emphasis program.. she just switched.. so anything else i can help u with? :) 

917. 
                            well seeing how you've taken the time to post already, I guess that means you don't mind answering some more questions...

What res. hall should I try to get in freshman year? Some other students suggested Hayes.

If you know anything about the Italian, French and Japanese language courses, which is considered the "best." Best for me, means the most enjoyable experience. Factor in how well taught each one is along with work load as you see accordingly, but still, how much I enjoy the class is most important to me. I'm trying to decide which language to take, but I love all three. In highschool I took Spanish and a little japanese. I speak a little Italian at home. As for French, I'm just curious about the culture as a whole. I'm going there this summer for film school.

And I guess, I'd like to ask you how USF has been as a whole for you. Good, bad? What did you hate the most, love the most. That whole bit..

Thanks, again.                        

918. 
                            haha.. i don't mind at all...

i didn't stay in the halls freshman year so i've been asking around... and they say hayes too... hahah... so i guess that's ur best bet.. something about it being cleaner and having two lounges...  but in my opinion the room mate u have matters... the ORL assigned both my roommates for me and i got along fine with them.. in fact i got along great with both of them...  but i'm one of the luckier ones i guess... i have friends who hate their roommates or just can't stand them...  there's always room change week but some ppl think it's too troublesome... so yeah..

i haven't the faintest clue about those classes because i don't have to take them... so let's see what i remember from my friend taking spanish... you have it four times a week... and for the first level classes i think they do speak some english but as it progresses they tend to only speak the language u're learning... of course u'll have to test into them first... i suggest you take french because u mentioned that you're going to france and knowing some french would probably be a great help....

so far i've loved how USF is... how the professors know you, how you can walk around campus and pretty much bump into at least one person you know.. how the classes are small and people are generally pretty friendly.. transport to downtown is good and it's like a short walk to haight ashbury... u can pretty much do without a car here... i don't have one..

the cafeteria food is pretty ok.. but it's not something you can eat all the time.. it's gets sooooooo boring... my friends usually mix it up with delivery... yup.. don't bother to get any flexi plan other than the smallest amount possible...

if i had to pick something i hate i'd say the lone mountain stairs and 7.45am classes... haha... and the loyola village stairs leave much to be desired too.. but you don't have to deal with that.. heh...

i should mention that even though this school is small... it would do good to get involved in some club or organization becuase it's the fastest way to make friends... but then again since you'll be in the dorms with all the other freshmen, you should be fine..

ok.. i've run out of things to say.. haha... hope that's enough for u for now..                        

919. 
                            more then enough. nice tips.

I'll leave you be now. :) 

920. 
                            I'm studying right now at U$F, i can honestly say it was the worst decision of my life....I am trying to do what ever possible to get out of this hell hole...but as far as res. halls for freshman I would pick hayes for sure....                        

921. 
                            I just thought i would ad this bit of small info.....out of the 24 guys on my wing of my hall........10 are transferring....just makes you think....huh?                        

922. 
                            I'm already thinking of going somewhere else, but could you tell me exactly what you don't like about USF?? Or what the majority feelings of angst are..thanks for any replies.                        

923. 
                            The academics are a joke...and it would be a reach to call the student body "students".....U$F is nothing better than a 4 year community college....or a disco with books....they take anyone with a pulse...but the professors are GREAT and very helpful, plus San Fran is an awsome city...but i would honestly rather be going to the University of North Dakota over this place....plus for the major that you want just to go USC it's such a better school                        

924. 
                    It seems that there's no love for USF on the College Confidential site!                

925. 
                            USF is a great school, I'd apply there but I've lived in the city all my life, and want to get away. Honestly, if I were from any other place in the country, USF would be my top choice. The school is in a great part of town, great campus atmosphere. I went to a party there one time, really awesome students. Good luck, oh, and one last thing, nobody calls San Francisco "Frisco." Its "The City" if you're from the bay area, "SFC, San francisco city, or sucka free city" if you're from the ghetto, sometimes "San Fran", but never "Frisco." Only tourists call The City "frisco," and if you call it that at USF, you deserve to have your ass swiftly beat.                        

926. 
                            haha ya i live in the bay area and its so damn annoying when people call it frisco. they sound really dumb when they say it.                        

